=== Triazolam (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 627)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Triazolam is a short-acting oral benzodiazepine indicated for the short-term (typically 7 to 10 days) management of insomnia.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 0.5 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): abnormal dreams, ataxia, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, dysesthesia, eeg changes, euphoria, hallucinations, headache, paresthesias, syncope, weakness, agitation, insomnia, irritability, mania, nightmares, restlessness, tremor, dysgeusia, hepatic failure, jaundice, libido decrease, menstrual irregularity, urinary incontinence, urinary retention, angioedema

In an Overdose: Rarely, paradoxical or disinhibitory reactions (including agitation, irritability, impulsivity, violent behavior, confusion, restlessness, excitement, and talkativeness) may occur, particularly in overdose. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Triazolam is contraindicated in any patient with a known triazolam or other benzodiazepine hypersensitivity or known allergies to any component of the formulation. Reactions including anaphylaxis or angioedema may become evident as early as the initial dose.

Brand Names
  - Halcion

Dosage Forms
  - Halcion 0.25mg Tablet
  - Triazolam 0.125mg Oral tablet
  - Triazolam 0.25mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.25 mg PO at bedtime is the usual dose; 0.125 mg PO at bedtime may be adequate for some patients (e.g., lower weight, debilitated). Max: 0.5 mg/night; reserve this dose for those not responding adequately to lower dose; the risk of adverse reactions is dose-related.
        Heading
        Geriatric Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.125 mg PO at bedtime, initially. Geriatric patients have an increased risk for adverse reactions. Max: 0.25 mg/night; reserve this dose for those not responding adequately to the lower dose.
    Heading
    For the short-term treatment of insomnia

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Triazolam is contraindicated in any patient with a known triazolam or other benzodiazepine hypersensitivity or known allergies to any component of the formulation. Reactions including anaphylaxis or angioedema may become evident as early as the initial dose. Patients should be instructed on the appropriate action in the event of an allergic reaction. Treatment with triazolam should not be reinitiated in patients who experience angioedema after administration of the drug.
 
It is important to use the smallest effective dose of triazolam. Patients who present initially for treatment for sleep disturbances may have an underlying psychological and/or physiological disturbance and should be thoroughly evaluated prior to initiation of triazolam. The failure of the insomnia to remit or worsening of the insomnia after 7—10 days may indicate the presence of other primary disorders. Worsening of depression has been reported with benzodiazepine use. Although triazolam is occasionally beneficial for patients with major depression or psychosis, the drug should be administered cautiously, if at all, to patients with suicidal ideation. Triazolam should be used cautiously in patients with bipolar disorder because mania and hypomania have been reported in conjunction with the use of benzodiazepines in depressive disorders.
 
Triazolam can cause physical and psychological dependence, and should be used with extreme caution in patients with known, suspected, or a history of substance abuse. Generally, benzodiazepines should be prescribed for short periods (2—4 weeks) with continued re-evaluation of the need for treatment. Abrupt discontinuation of triazolam after prolonged use can cause seizures in susceptible patients. Abrupt discontinuation of benzodiazepine therapy has been reported to cause a withdrawal syndrome (see Adverse Effects), especially following high dose or prolonged benzodiazepine therapy. However, benzodiazepine dependence can occur with therapeutic doses administered for as few as 1—2 weeks and withdrawal symptoms may be seen following the discontinuance of therapy. Benzodiazepine withdrawal also can be more intense if the benzodiazepine involved possesses a relatively short duration of action such as triazolam. Patients with a history of a seizure disorder or who are taking other drugs that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., bupropion, TCAs, phenothiazines) should not be withdrawn abruptly from benzodiazepines due to the risk of precipitating a seizure; status epilepticus has also been reported. Benzodiazepines should be withdrawn cautiously and slowly, using a very gradual dosage-tapering schedule. During withdrawal, the greatest risk of seizure appears to be during the first 24 to 72 hours.
 
Worsening of daytime anxiety has been reported with the use of triazolam as few as 10 days after continuous use. In some patients this may be due to interdose withdrawal. If increased daytime anxiety is observed, it may be advisable to discontinue treatment gradually.
 
Triazolam should be used with extreme caution, if at all, in patients with respiratory depression, shock, coma, pulmonary disease such as severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or sleep apnea because the drug can exacerbate ventilatory failure. Use cautiously in patients who snore to avoid conversion to obstructive sleep apnea.
 
Due to CNS depression, patients should be cautioned against driving or operating machinery until they know how triazolam may affect them. Some patients may experience excessive sedation and impaired ability to perform tasks; however, this is usually less than that seen with intermediate- or long-acting benzodiazepines. Sedative-hypnotic medications have the potential to cause sleep-related behaviors such as sleep-driving, a state of driving after ingestion of a sedative-hypnotic while not fully awake and having no memory of the event. Other sleep-related behaviors may include making phone calls or eating while asleep. The exact incidences among various sedative products are unknown; however patients should be informed of the risks prior to receiving any medication from this class. Increased CNS effects may be seen with concurrent use of triazolam and other CNS depressant agents (see Drug Interactions), and in patients with acute ethanol intoxication, organic brain syndromes (i.e., dementia), or psychosis. Patients with ethanol intoxication who have also consumed triazolam have an increased risk of respiratory depression and coma. Ethanol should be avoided during treatment with triazolam. Anterograde amnesia has been reported to occur more frequently with triazolam than with other benzodiazepines. Many reports of severe 'traveler's amnesia' have occurred in patients traveling by plane, consuming alcohol with triazolam and/or taking the medication too late to allow it's effects to wear off prior to arrival at their destination.
 
Triazolam should be used with extreme caution in patients with myasthenia gravis because the drug can exacerbate this condition.
 
The administration of triazolam can exacerbate acute intermittent porphyria, so the drug should be used with caution in patients with this condition.
 
 Many benzodiazepines are contraindicated in patients with acute closed-angle glaucoma. However, the manufacturers of triazolam do not contraindicate its use in any type of glaucoma. The mechanistic rational for this contraindication has been questioned, as benzodiazepines do not have antimuscarinic activity and do not raise intraocular pressure. Benzodiazepines may be used in patients with open-angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy. 
 
Triazolam is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category X and is contraindicated in pregnant females. Positive evidence of human fetal risk exists based on investigational, marketing, or human studies. The patient should be apprised of the potential risk to the fetus if she should become pregnant during triazolam therapy. It should be anticipated that neonates may experience withdrawal symptoms and CNS/respiratory depression if the mother has been using benzodiazepines late in pregnancy. Neonatal flaccidity has been reported in an infant whose mother was using benzodiazepines. Triazolam has no established use in labor or obstetric delivery.
 
Triazolam may be distributed into breast milk, causing sedation, feeding difficulties, and weight loss in the nursing infant. The use of triazolam during breast-feeding is generally not recommended.
 
Triazolam should be administered cautiously to patients with severe hepatic disease because the elimination half-life of the drug can be prolonged, possibly resulting in toxicity. Patients with hepatic disease are more likely to experience adverse CNS reactions and should receive reduced initial dosages. Triazolam is significantly metabolized via the hepatic P450 microsomal isoenzyme CYP3A4. Concomitant administration of triazolam and potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 is contraindicated. Medications considered to be potent CYP3A4 inhibitors which should not be used concurrently with triazolam include systemically-administered azole antifungals, some antibiotics, and anti-retroviral protease inhibitors (See Drug Interactions). Other CYP3A4 inhibitors may also potentially cause triazolam toxicity (see Drug Interactions). This list is not inclusive of all CYP3A4 inhibitors.
 
Although specific dosage alterations of triazolam are not required in patients with renal impairment or renal failure, the manufacturer recommends to use caution in these patients.
 
Patients with late stage Parkinson's disease may experience worsening of their psychosis or impaired cognition with administration of benzodiazepines. Benzodiazepines may also cause incoordination or paradoxical reactions that may worsen symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
 
The clearance and/or elimination of triazolam is reduced in the elderly and/or debilitated patient compared to a younger patient. Delayed elimination can either intensify or prolong the adverse reactions of triazolam. Benzodiazepines have been associated with falls, unexpected amnesia and oversedation in the elderly. The impairment of cognitive and motor function may be more marked in this patient group and a lower initial dosage is recommended together with close monitoring (see Dosage).
 
The safe and effective use of triazolam in infants or children under 18 years old has not been established. Children are generally more sensitive to the CNS effects of the benzodiazepines. In general, the use of triazolam in children should be avoided.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    depression, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Pre-existing depression may emerge or worsen during use of benzodiazepines, and triazolam should be administered with caution in patients with depression. Patients who present initially for treatment for sleep disturbances may have an underlying psychological and/or physiological disturbance and should be thoroughly evaluated prior to initiation of triazolam. The failure of the insomnia to remit or worsening of the insomnia after 7 to 10 days may indicate the presence of other primary psychiatric or medical conditions. Consequently, appropriate precautions (e.g., limiting the total prescription size and increased monitoring for suicidal ideation) should be considered in patients with depression. Evaluate any patient who uses triazolam for more than 3 weeks; triazolam should not be prescribed in quantities exceeding a 1-month supply.
    Headline
    coadministration with certain medications, pulmonary disease, respiratory insufficiency, sleep apnea
    General Information
    Triazolam coadministration with certain medications, such as opioids, may result in serious adverse effects, including profound sedation, CNS depression, respiratory depression, coma, and death. The concomitant use of these medications has demonstrated an increased risk of drug-related mortality compared to the use of opioids alone. The combined use of opioids and benzodiazepines should be reserved for patients in whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If the decision is made to prescribe triazolam concomitantly with opioids, the lowest effective dose should be prescribed for the shortest duration of use, and patients should be followed closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Advise patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when triazolam is used with opioids. Deaths have been reported in people with severe pulmonary disease after initiation of benzodiazepines; closely monitor patients with impaired respiratory function (respiratory insufficiency) or sleep apnea. If signs and symptoms of respiratory depression, hypoventilation, or apnea occur, discontinue triazolam.
    Headline
    abrupt discontinuation, increased risk for benzodiazepine withdrawal, substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    The use of benzodiazepines, including triazolam, exposes users to serious adverse events, including risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which can increase the frequency of serious adverse outcomes. Before prescribing and throughout treatment, assess each patient's risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction using a standardized screening tool. Counsel patients about the risks and proper use of triazolam and prescribe the lowest effective dose to reduce excess exposure and advise patients on proper disposal of unused medication. Minimize the concomitant use of CNS depressants or other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants). If a substance abuse disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute or refer them for early treatment. Chronic, continued use of benzodiazepines may also lead to physical benzodiazepine dependence. The risk of dependence increases with longer treatment duration and higher daily doses and may lead to an increased risk for benzodiazepine withdrawal upon discontinuation. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dose reduction can precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening. To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to reduce the dose or discontinue triazolam. In some cases, patients using benzodiazepines have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months. Patients with a history of a seizure disorder should not be withdrawn abruptly from benzodiazepines due to the risk of precipitating seizures; status epilepticus has also been reported. Clinicians should be aware that the use of flumazenil may increase the risk of seizures, particularly in long-term users of benzodiazepines.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Due to CNS depressive effects, individuals should be cautioned against driving or operating machinery or participating in other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they know how triazolam may affect them. Some patients may experience excessive sedation and impaired ability to perform tasks. Given the primary CNS effects of triazolam, use caution during coadministration with other CNS depressants. Alcohol may further impair cognitive and motor skills and can increase the risk of serious CNS or respiratory depression and alcohol should be avoided during triazolam treatment. Triazolam can also cause drug-induced complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., sleep-driving, eating, sexual activity, or making phone calls) with no memory of these events. These effects can occur with or without concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants. Rarely, serious injuries or death have occurred. Patients should discontinue triazolam immediately and contact their healthcare provider if such episodes occur.
    Headline
    myasthenia gravis
    General Information
    Triazolam should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis, particularly at higher doses; these patients may be more sensitive to the CNS and respiratory effects of the benzodiazepines.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Triazolam should be used cautiously in geriatric adults since they are more sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines; lower initial doses and slower titration are recommended. Because triazolam can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, there is a higher risk of falls, particularly in the elderly, with the potential for subsequent severe injuries. The Beers Criteria state that benzodiazepines are potentially inappropriate medications in geriatric adults with a history of delirium, dementia, or a history of falls or fractures; benzodiazepines increase the risk of cognitive impairment, delirium, falls, fractures, and motor vehicle accidents in older adults and avoidance is generally recommended, with some exceptions for approved indications. If a benzodiazepine must be used, consider reducing the use of other CNS-active medications and implement other strategies to reduce fall risk. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates anxiolytic and sedative/hypnotic use in long-term care facilities. Per OBRA, triazolam is not a medication of choice in the older adult. When a drug is used to induce sleep, treat a sleep disorder, manage behavior, stabilize mood, or treat a psychiatric disorder, tapering as outlined in the OBRA guidelines should be attempted unless clinically contraindicated. Dosages and durations of treatment used should align with prescribing labels, published literature recommendations, and expert guidelines.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Published data from observational studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide use. However, more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, adjusted for confounding exposures to other substances, have not confirmed these findings. Benzodiazepines cross the placenta. Neonates exposed to benzodiazepines during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, may experience symptoms of sedation. Those with prolonged exposure during late pregnancy may experience withdrawal after delivery. The incidence, time to onset, and duration of sedation and withdrawal are multifactorial (e.g., duration of use, drug lipophilicity, placental disposition, degree of accumulation in neonatal tissues). Individuals who become pregnant or intend to become pregnant while taking triazolam should be advised to discuss the possibility of discontinuing the drug with their physician. If a benzodiazepine is required during pregnancy, avoid first trimester administration if possible, consider short-acting agents, limit treatment to the shortest possible duration and lowest effective dose, and discontinue the drug well before delivery. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to triazolam or other psychiatric medications during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications at 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Monitor neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero for symptoms of withdrawal, such as hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties. In neonates exposed during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, monitor for sedation, including respiratory depression, lethargy, and hypotonia. If symptoms are present, manage accordingly.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use triazolam with caution during breast-feeding. Animal studies indicate triazolam is present in animal milk. Although human milk concentrations have not been reported, some penetration is likely. An alternative agent with more data may be preferred. Monitor children exposed to benzodiazepines through breast milk for excessive sedation, slowed breathing rate, poor feeding, and inadequate weight gain. Withdrawal may occur in those with long-term exposure to the drug. This may occur with cessation of breast-feeding or cessation of the medication in the breast-feeding person. To limit exposure to triazolam, a lactating individual may consider interrupting breast-feeding and pumping and discarding breast milk during treatment and for 28 hours (approximately 5 elimination half-lives) after triazolam administration.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Published data from observational studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy have not established a drug-associated risk of major birth defects. Early studies suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide use. However, more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, adjusted for confounding exposures to other substances, have not confirmed these findings. Benzodiazepines cross the placenta. Neonates exposed to benzodiazepines during late pregnancy, including during labor and delivery, may experience symptoms of sedation. Those with prolonged exposure during late pregnancy may experience withdrawal after delivery. The incidence, time to onset, and duration of sedation and withdrawal are multifactorial (e.g., duration of use, drug lipophilicity, placental disposition, degree of accumulation in neonatal tissues). Individuals who become pregnant or intend to become pregnant while taking triazolam should be advised to discuss the possibility of discontinuing the drug with their physician. If a benzodiazepine is required during pregnancy, avoid first trimester administration if possible, consider short-acting agents, limit treatment to the shortest possible duration and lowest effective dose, and discontinue the drug well before delivery. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to triazolam or other psychiatric medications during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications at 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/pregnancyregistry/.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use triazolam with caution during breast-feeding. Animal studies indicate triazolam is present in animal milk. Although human milk concentrations have not been reported, some penetration is likely. An alternative agent with more data may be preferred. Monitor children exposed to benzodiazepines through breast milk for excessive sedation, slowed breathing rate, poor feeding, and inadequate weight gain. Withdrawal may occur in those with long-term exposure to the drug. This may occur with cessation of breast-feeding or cessation of the medication in the breast-feeding person. To limit exposure to triazolam, a lactating individual may consider interrupting breast-feeding and pumping and discarding breast milk during treatment and for 28 hours (approximately 5 elimination half-lives) after triazolam administration.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of adagrasib with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with adagrasib. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A inhibitors.
ALFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of alprazolam with CNS-depressant drugs can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amiodarone. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amiodarone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Amoxapine may enhance the response to the effects of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants. Patients should be warned of the possibility of drowsiness that may impair performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving an automobile or operating machinery.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Clarithromycin is considered a strong inhibitor of this isoenzyme. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects. (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as triazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Apalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with a multi-day aprepitant or fosaprepitant regimen; consider dose reduction of triazolam if clinically appropriate. No dosage adjustment is needed for a single dose of aprepitant (40 mg) or fosaprepitant (150 mg). Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant and fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer when used in multi-day regimens.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of aripiprazole and benzodiazepines. Intensity of sedation and orthostatic hypotension were greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam compared to aripiprazole alone.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with asciminib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and asciminib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with asenapine, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when asenapine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates), buprenorphine, buprenorphine; naloxone, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, opiate agonists, pentazocine, acetaminophen; pentazocine, aspirin, ASA; pentazocine, and pentazocine; naloxone.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as triazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as cobicistat, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with avacopan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Azelastine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of azelastine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Belumosudil: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with belumosudil and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and belumosudil is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If benzhydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Benztropine: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of benztropine.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with berotralstat and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Bicalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with bicalutamide and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and bicalutamide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with lenacapavir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Brexanolone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of brexanolone with CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines may increase the likelihood or severity of adverse reactions related to sedation and additive CNS depression. Monitor for excessive sedation, dizziness, and a potential for loss of consciousness during brexanolone use.
Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brimonidine; Brinzolamide: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. Reduce injectable buprenorphine dose by 1/2, and for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start therapy with the 5 mcg/hour patch. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. Reduce injectable buprenorphine dose by 1/2, and for the buprenorphine transdermal patch, start therapy with the 5 mcg/hour patch. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion is contraindicated in patients undergoing abrupt withdrawal of benzodiazepines since the risk of seizures associated with bupropion may be increased. Excessive use of a benzodiazepine is associated with an increased seizure risk upon discontinuation of the drug; seizures may be more likely to occur in these patients during concurrent use of bupropion.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Bupropion is contraindicated in patients undergoing abrupt withdrawal of benzodiazepines since the risk of seizures associated with bupropion may be increased. Excessive use of a benzodiazepine is associated with an increased seizure risk upon discontinuation of the drug; seizures may be more likely to occur in these patients during concurrent use of bupropion.
busPIRone: (Moderate) It is common for patients to overlap anxiety treatment when switching from benzodiazepines to buspirone. Buspirone has a slow onset of action and the drug will not block the withdrawal syndrome often seen with cessation of benzodiazepine therapy in those with benzodiazepine dependence. Therefore, before starting therapy with buspirone, withdraw patients gradually from the benzodiazepine. Alternatively, conversion to buspirone therapy may require treatment overlap to allow for the downward titration of the benzodiazepine while buspirone takes effect. It should be noted that the combination of buspirone and benzodiazepines can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Butorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and triazolam. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capivasertib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with capivasertib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and capivasertib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Carbachol; Brimonidine: (Moderate) Based on the sedative effects of brimonidine in individual patients, brimonidine administration has potential to enhance the CNS depressants effects of the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics including benzodiazepines.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with carbamazepine is necessary. Consider appropriate dose adjustment of triazolam if clinically indicated. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Carbidopa; Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of cariprazine, caution should be used when cariprazine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ceritinib with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ceritinib. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as chloramphenicol, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with cimetidine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and cimetidine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ciprofloxacin and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Cisapride may enhance the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how the combination affects them. Patient counseling is important, as cisapride alone does not cause drowsiness or affect psychomotor function.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Clarithromycin is considered a strong inhibitor of this isoenzyme. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
cloBAZam: (Major) Use clobazam with other benzodiazepines with caution due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with clofazimine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and clofazimine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Clonidine has CNS depressive effects and can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) If concurrent therapy with clozapine and a benzodiazepine is necessary, it is advisable to begin with the lowest possible benzodiazepine dose and closely monitor the patient, particularly at initiation of treatment and following dose increases. Although the combination has been used safely, adverse reactions such as confusion, ataxia, somnolence, delirium, collapse, cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, and death have occurred rarely in patients receiving clozapine concurrently or following benzodiazepine therapy. Several benzodiazepines, including clonazepam, oxazepam, flurazepam, diazepam, clobazam, flunitrazepam, and lorazepam have been implicated in these reactions. At least one case of sudden death was reported following intravenous administration of lorazepam to a patient receiving clozapine.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as cobicistat, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with cocaine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and cocaine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid prescribing opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
COMT inhibitors: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with conivaptan and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with crizotinib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with cyclosporine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dalfopristin; Quinupristin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with quinupristin and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and quinupristin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Danazol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with danazol. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and danazol is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Daridorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with daridorexant. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and daridorexant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as cobicistat, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as cobicistat, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Concurrent use with benzodiazepines can decrease the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of desflurane needed to produce anesthesia.
Desipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as triazolam, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dexmedetomidine and benzodiazepines may result in additive CNS depression. A reduction in dosage of dexmedetomidine or the benzodiazepine may be required.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Bupropion is contraindicated in patients undergoing abrupt withdrawal of benzodiazepines since the risk of seizures associated with bupropion may be increased. Excessive use of a benzodiazepine is associated with an increased seizure risk upon discontinuation of the drug; seizures may be more likely to occur in these patients during concurrent use of bupropion.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Dicyclomine can cause drowsiness, so it should be used cautiously in patients receiving CNS depressants like benzodiazepines.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with diltiazem; consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, such as diphenoxylate/difenoxin, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Disulfiram may decrease the hepatic oxidative metabolism of benzodiazepines if administered concomitantly. Patients receiving triazolam should be monitored for signs of altered benzodiazepine response when triazolam is coadministered.
Doxepin: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if the use of benzodiazepines are necessary with dronabinol, and monitor for additive dizziness, confusion, somnolence, and other CNS effects.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with dronedarone and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
droPERidol: (Major) Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes. In December 2001, the FDA issued a black box warning regarding the use of droperidol and its association with QT prolongation and potential for cardiac arrhythmias based on post-marketing surveillance data. Risk factors for the development of prolonged QT syndrome may include the use of benzodiazepines. Also, droperidol and benzodiazepines can both cause CNS depression. If used with a benzodiazepine, droperidol should be initiated at a low dose and adjusted upward, with caution, as needed to achieve the desired effect.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with duvelisib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with elbasvir; grazoprevir and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ivacaftor and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elinzanetant: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with elinzanetant. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and elinzanetant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as cobicistat, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as cobicistat, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Encorafenib: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with encorafenib is necessary. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ensitrelvir. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Entacapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Enzalutamide: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with enzalutamide is necessary. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Patients taking benzodiazepines for insomnia should not use caffeine-containing products prior to going to bed as these products may antagonize the sedative effects of the benzodiazepine.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with erythromycin and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and benzodiazepines for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with eszopiclone can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. The concurrent use of eszopiclone with other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics at bedtime or in the middle of the night is not recommended. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with everolimus and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and everolimus is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with fedratinib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and finerenone at a dose of at least 40 mg/day is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with fluconazole and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Fluconazole increases the AUC of triazolam (single dose) by approximately 50%, Cmax by 20 to 32%, and increases triazolam half-life by 25 to 50% due to the inhibition of metabolism of triazolam.
Flumazenil: (Major) Flumazenil competes with benzodiazepines for binding at the GABA/benzodiazepine-receptor complex, the specific binding site of benzodiazepines. Because binding at the receptor is competitive and flumazenil has a much shorter duration of action than do most benzodiazepines, it is possible for the effects of flumazenil to dissipate sooner than the effects of the benzodiazepine. Flumazenil does not affect the pharmacokinetics of the benzodiazepines. Abrupt awakening can cause dysphoria, agitation, and possibly increased adverse effects. If administered to patients who have received a benzodiazepine chronically, abrupt interruption of benzodiazepine agonism by flumazenil can induce benzodiazepine withdrawal including seizures. Flumazenil has minimal effects on benzodiazepine-induced respiratory depression; suitable ventilatory support should be available, especially in treating acute benzodiazepine overdose. Flumazenil does not reverse the actions of barbiturates, opiate agonists, or tricyclic antidepressants.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Fluoxetine could theoretically inhibit CYP3A4 metabolism of oxidized benzodiazepines, including triazolam. Patients should be monitored for clinical response, and adjust benzodiazepine dosage if needed.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with fluvoxamine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosamprenavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Foscarbidopa; Foslevodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with phenytoin/fosphenytoin is necessary. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers.
Fostamatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with fostamatinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and fostamatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Gabapentin: (Major) Concomitant use of benzodiazepines with gabapentin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Gepotidacin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with gepotidacin. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Givinostat: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with givinostat. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and givinostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Clinicians should be aware that food interactions with some benzodiazepines are possible. Grapefruit juice inhibits the cytochrome P-450 3A4 isozyme in the gut wall. Grapefruit juice contains furanocoumarins that are metabolized by CYP3A4 to reactive intermediates. These intermediates form a covalent bond to the active site of the CYP3A4 enzyme, causing irreversible inactivation (mechanism-based inhibition). Consequently, CYP3A4 activity in the gut wall is inhibited until de novo synthesis returns the enzyme to its previous level. Coadministration of grapefruit juice increased the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of triazolam by 25%, increased the AUC by 48%, and increased the half-life by 18%. Increased sedation may be possible. Elderly patients have the greatest possibility of ingesting grapefruit and interacting medications and are the most vulnerable to the adverse clinical consequences. The manufacturer of triazolam recommends caution during coadministration with grapefuit juice. Alprazolam and lorazepam may be alternatives in certain patients since it may not interact or may have a minor pharmacokinetic interaction with grapefuit juice.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Guanfacine has been associated with sedative effects and can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines, Caution should be exercised with simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
Hydantoins: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with phenytoin/fosphenytoin is necessary. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response; for hydrocodone extended-release products, initiate hydrocodone at 20% to 30% of the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Avoid opiate cough medications in patients taking benzodiazepines.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If hydromorphone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce the initial dosage of hydromorphone and titrate to clinical response; for hydromorphone extended-release tablets, use 1/3 to 1/2 of the estimated hydromorphone starting dose. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as idelalisib, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when iloperidone is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with imatinib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Imipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with isavuconazonium and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with isoniazid and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and isoniazid is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Istradefylline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with istradefylline and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Triazolam is contraindicated for use during and for 2 weeks after itraconazole therapy. Coadministration of itraconazole with triazolam may result in prolonged sedation and respiratory depression due to inhibition of CYP3A by itraconazole. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with itraconazole, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. A study using single oral doses of estazolam showed that itraconazole had no effect on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of estazolam.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ivacaftor and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ivosidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of triazolam during coadministration of ivosidenib; a triazolam dose adjustment may be necessary. Triazolam is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; ivosidenib induces CYP3A4 and may lead to decreased triazolam concentrations.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ketoconazole with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ketoconazole. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Clarithromycin is considered a strong inhibitor of this isoenzyme. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with lapatinib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lapatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with larotrectinib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and larotrectinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lazertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with lazertinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lazertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with oral lefamulin and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. An interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during use of lemborexant with benzodiazepines. Dosage adjustments may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. Use of more than 2 hypnotics should be avoided due to the additive CNS depressant and complex sleep-related behaviors that may occur. While anxiolytic medications may be used concurrently with lemborexant, a reduction in dose of one or both agents may be needed. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with lenacapavir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during triazolam coadministration with letermovir and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Use together may increase triazolam exposure. Concurrent use is contraindicated if the patient is also receiving cyclosporine because the magnitude of the interaction may be amplified. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Combining letermovir with cyclosporine will further increase the inhibitory effects. The combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with benzodiazepines should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Levodopa: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ketoconazole with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ketoconazole. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS active drugs, including benzodiazepines, with levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with levomilnacipran.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If levorphanol is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce the initial dose of levorphanol by approximately 50% or more. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Lofexidine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration of lofexidine and benzodiazepines. Lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lonafarnib with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with lonafarnib. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Concomitant use of triazolam and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is not recommended; if sedation or anxiolysis is needed, consider alternative therapy. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the therapeutic effect of triazolam by decreasing systemic exposure. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong inducer of CYP3A, and triazolam is a CYP3A substrate. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ivacaftor and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Concomitant use of triazolam and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is not recommended; if sedation or anxiolysis is needed, consider alternative therapy. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may decrease the therapeutic effect of triazolam by decreasing systemic exposure. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong inducer of CYP3A, and triazolam is a CYP3A substrate.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including benzodiazepines. In one study, co-administration of lurasidone and midazolam increased the Cmax and AUC of midazolam by about 21% and 44%, respectively, compared to midazolam alone; however, dosage adjustment of midazolam based upon pharmacokinetic parameters is not required during concurrent use of lurasidone.
Maribavir: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with maribavir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and maribavir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with mavorixafor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and mavorixafor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Melatonin: (Major) Use caution when combining melatonin with the benzodiazepines; when the benzodiazepine is used for sleep, co-use of melatonin should be avoided. Use of more than 1 agent for hypnotic purposes may increase the risk for over-sedation, CNS effects, or sleep-related behaviors. Be alert for unusual changes in moods or behaviors. Use caution when combining melatonin with benzodiazepines for other uses. Patients reporting unusual sleep-related behaviors should likely discontinue melatonin use. In animal studies, melatonin has been shown to increase benzodiazepine binding to receptor sites. In one case report, a benzodiazepine-dependent woman with an 11 year history of insomnia weaned and discontinued her benzodiazepine prescription within a few days without rebound insomnia or apparent benzodiazepine withdrawal when melatonin was given. In another case report, the ingestion of excessive melatonin along with normal doses of chlordiazepoxide and an antidepressant resulted in lethargy and short-term amnestic responses. Both cases suggest additive pharmacodynamic effects. In a clinical trial, there was clear evidence for a transitory pharmacodynamic interaction between melatonin and another hypnotic agent one hour following co-dosing. Concomitant administration resulted in increased impairment of attention, memory and coordination compared to the hypnotic agent alone.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with meprobamate can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If methadone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduced dosages are recommended; in opioid-naive adults, use an initial dose of methadone 2.5 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzodiazepines and other CNS active medications including skeletal muscle relaxants, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. Lower doses of one or both agents may be required. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) CNS depression can be increased when methscopolamine is combined with other CNS depressants such as any anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Methyldopa is associated with sedative effects. Methyldopa can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants such as barbiturates, benzodiazepines, opiate agonists, or phenothiazines when administered concomitantly.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation.
metyraPONE: (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as benzodiazepines, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with benzodiazepines can result in additive sedative effects.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as mifepristone, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects. Mifepristone inhibits CYP3A4 when it is used chronically in the treatment of hormonal conditions, such as Cushing's disease. Due to the slow elimination of mifepristone from the body, such interactions may be observed for a prolonged period after mifepristone administration.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Concurrent use of many CNS-active drugs with milnacipran or levomilnacipran has not been evaluated by the manufacturer. Therefore, caution is advisable when combining anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other psychoactive medications with these medications.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and mirtazapine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and triazolam are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of triazolam and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of triazolam. Additionally, mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS adverse reactions; additive CNS effects may occur initially when mitotane is given concurrently with triazolam.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Modafinil has been reported to induce the metabolism of triazolam via induction of the hepatic microsomal CYP3A4 isoenzyme. If a patient is receiving triazolam and modafinil is introduced, monitor the patient for decreased clinical response to the benzodiazepine. Conversely, if modafinil is discontinued in such a patient, the triazolam dosage may need to be adjusted downward after modafinil cessation.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If morphine is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce initial dosages and titrate to clinical response. For extended-release tablets, start with morphine 15 mg PO every 12 hours, and for extended-release capsules, start with 30 mg PO every 24 hours or less. Use an initial morphine; naltrexone dose of 20 mg/0.8 mg PO every 24 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nalbuphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as nefazodone, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Triazolam AUC and half-life are increased 4-fold by the addition of nefazodone. Nefazodone does not appear to interact with benzodiazepines that are eliminated through conjugation, such as lorazepam, oxazepam or temazepam.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with netupitant and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nevirapine: (Minor) Monitor for reduced efficacy of triazolam if coadministration with nevirapine is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A inducer.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with nicardipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and nicardipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with nilotinib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and triazolam is contraindicated. Consider temporary discontinuation of triazolam during treatment with ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and for at least 2 to 3 days after treatment completion; if not feasible, consider alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with nirogacestat. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nitroglycerin: (Minor) Nitroglycerin can cause hypotension. This action may be additive with other agents that can cause hypotension such as benzodiazepines. Patients should be monitored more closely for hypotension if nitroglycerin is used concurrently with benzodiazepines.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine. (Moderate) Fluoxetine could theoretically inhibit CYP3A4 metabolism of oxidized benzodiazepines, including triazolam. Patients should be monitored for clinical response, and adjust benzodiazepine dosage if needed.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Although oral formulations of olanzapine and benzodiazepines may be used together, additive effects on respiratory depression and/or CNS depression are possible. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with olanzapine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension. Besides ethanol, clinicians should use other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics cautiously with olanzapine.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with triazolam may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medication with triazolam to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as triazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as triazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Omeprazole inhibits CYP2C19. There have been some case reports describing an interaction between omeprazole and benzodiazepines metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system, such as triazolam. Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of the benzodiazepine when taken concomitantly with omeprazole.
Opicapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with osilodrostat and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxycodone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, reduce dosages and titrate to clinical response. For acetaminophen; oxycodone extended-release tablets, start with 1 tablet PO every 12 hours, and for other oxycodone products, use an initial dose of oxycodone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If oxymorphone is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use an initial dose of oxymorphone at 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dosage and titrate to clinical response. If the extended-release oxymorphone tablets are used concurrently with a CNS depressant, use an initial dosage of 5 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Palbociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with palbociclib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and palbociclib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as benzodiazepines, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness when coadministered with paliperidone. Monitor for signs and symptoms of CNS depression and advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of papaverine with potent CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines could lead to enhanced sedation.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with pazopanib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and pazopanib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of mixed opiate agonists/antagonists with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the mixed opiate agonist/antagonist and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking a mixed opiate agonist/antagonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Patients taking benzodiazepines with perampanel may experience increased CNS depression. Monitor patients for adverse effects; dose adjustment of either drug may be necessary. Use of midazolam in healthy subjects who received perampanel 6 mg once daily for 20 days decreased the AUC and Cmax of midazolam by 13% and 15%, respectively, possibly due to weak induction of CYP3A4 by perampanel; the specific clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Perphenazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers. (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with phenytoin/fosphenytoin is necessary. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Due to the effects of pimozide on cognition, it should be used cautiously with other CNS depressants including benzodiazepines.
Pirtobrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with pirtobrutinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as posaconazole, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are unlikely to be affected by azole antifungals.
Pramipexole: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with CNS-depressant drugs, including pramipexole, can potentiate the CNS effects.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Major) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA may inhibit the metabolism of benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, estazolam, midazolam) which undergo CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. In one study of elderly volunteers, half of the patients received DHEA 200 mg/day PO for 2 weeks, followed by a single dose of triazolam 0.25 mg. Triazolam clearance was reduced by close to 30% in the DHEA-pretreated patients vs. the control group; however, the effect of DHEA on CYP3A4 metabolism appeared to vary widely among subjects. While more study is needed, benzodiazepine-induced CNS sedation and other adverse effects might be increased in some individuals if DHEA is co-administered.
Pregabalin: (Major) Concomitant use of benzodiazepines with pregabalin may cause excessive sedation, somnolence, and respiratory depression. If concurrent use is necessary, initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and respiratory depression.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with primaquine. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and primaquine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Primidone: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Procarbazine: (Minor) CNS depressants benzodiazepines can potentiate the CNS depression caused by procarbazine therapy, so these drugs should be used together cautiously.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) The therapeutic effect of phenylephrine may be decreased in patients receiving benzodiazepines. Monitor patients for decreased pressor effect if these agents are administered concomitantly.
Propofol: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Protease inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Protriptyline: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Somnolence is a commonly reported adverse effect of quetiapine; coadministration of quetiapine with anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, or other CNS depressants may result in additive sedative effects.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Ramelteon is a sleep-promoting agent; therefore, additive pharmacodynamic effects are possible when combining ramelteon with benzodiazepines or other miscellaneous anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed with the use of zolpidem. Use of ramelteon 8 mg/day for 11 days and a single dose of zolpidem 10 mg resulted in an increase in the median Tmax of zolpidem of about 20 minutes; exposure to zolpidem was unchanged. Ramelteon use with hypnotics of any kind is considered duplicative therapy and these drugs are generally not co-administered.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ranolazine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ranolazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of MAOIs can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including buprenorphine, butorphanol, dronabinol, THC, nabilone, nalbuphine, and anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Use these drugs cautiously with MAOIs; warn patients to not drive or perform other hazardous activities until they know how a particular drug combination affects them. In some cases, the dosages of the CNS depressants may need to be reduced.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of relacorilant with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with relacorilant. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Remdesivir: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with remdesivir. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and remdesivir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Remifentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Benzodiazepine doses may need to be reduced up to 75% during coadministration with remifentanil. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Remimazolam: (Major) The sedative effect of remimazolam can be accentuated by triazolam. Titrate the dose of remimazolam to the desired clinical response and continuously monitor sedated patients for hypotension, airway obstruction, hypoventilation, apnea, and oxygen desaturation.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ribociclib with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ribociclib. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ribociclib with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with ribociclib. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with rifampin is necessary. Consider appropriate dose adjustment of triazolam if clinically indicated. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rifapentine: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with rifapentine is necessary. Consider appropriate dose adjustment of triazolam if clinically indicated. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ritlecitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of rotigotine with other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines, can potentiate the sedative effects of rotigotine.
Rucaparib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with rucaparib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Scopolamine may cause dizziness and drowsiness. Concurrent use of scopolamine and CNS depressants can adversely increase the risk of CNS depression.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Additive CNS and/or respiratory depression may occur. Additionally, barbiturates may increase the metabolism of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate. Barbiturates are CYP3A4 inducers.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and selegiline due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Selpercatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with selpercatinib and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and selpercatinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with sevabertinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and sevabertinib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Concomitant administration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by benzodiazepines. False study results are possible in patients with drug-induced hyper- or hypo-responsiveness; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
Skeletal Muscle Relaxants: (Moderate) Concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants with benzodiazepines can result in additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given. Monitor patients who take benzodiazepines with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation.
Sodium Oxybate: (Contraindicated) Sodium oxybate should not be used in combination with CNS depressant anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics or other sedative CNS depressant drugs. Specifically, sodium oxybate use is contraindicated in patients being treated with sedative hypnotic drugs. Sodium oxybate (GHB) has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. For example, the concomitant use of barbiturates and benzodiazepines increases sleep duration and may contribute to rapid onset, pronounced CNS depression, respiratory depression, or coma when combined with sodium oxybate.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with spironolactone and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and spironolactone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with spironolactone and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and spironolactone is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with St. John's Wort is necessary. Consider appropriate dose adjustment of triazolam if clinically indicated. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of triazolam when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of triazolam resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Additive somnolence and sedation may occur. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
Streptogramins: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with quinupristin and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and quinupristin is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
SUFentanil: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) CNS depressant drugs may have cumulative effects when administered concurrently and they should be used cautiously with suvorexant. A reduction in dose of the CNS depressant may be needed in some cases. These agents include the benzodiazepines.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If tapentadol is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, a reduced initial dosage of tapentadol is recommended. If the extended-release tapentadol tablets are used concurrently with a benzodiazepine, use an initial tapentadol dose of 50 mg PO every 12 hours. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Teduglutide: (Moderate) Altered mental status has been observed in patients taking teduglutide and benzodiazepines in the adult clinical studies for teduglutide. Careful monitoring and possible dose adjustment of the benzodiazepine agent may be required. Teduglutide has direct effects on the gut that may increase benzodiazepine exposure by improving oral absorption.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with amlodipine and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as benzodiazepines, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ivacaftor and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ivacaftor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Thalidomide: (Major) The use of benzodiazepine anxiolytics, sedatives, or hypnotics with thalidomide may cause an additive sedative effect and should be avoided. Thalidomide frequently causes drowsiness and somnolence. Dose reductions may be required. Patients should be instructed to avoid situations where drowsiness may be a problem and not to take other medications that may cause drowsiness without adequate medical advice. Advise patients as to the possible impairment of mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks, such as driving a car or operating other complex or dangerous machinery.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Minor) Aminophylline or Theophylline have been reported to counteract the pharmacodynamic effects of diazepam and possibly other benzodiazepines. The clinical significance of this interaction is not certain. A proposed mechanism is competitive binding of these methylxanthines to adenosine receptors in the brain. If such therapy is initiated or discontinued, monitor the clinical response to the benzodiazepine.
Thioridazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Thiothixene can potentiate the CNS-depressant action of other drugs such as benzodiazepines. Caution should be exercised during simultaneous use of these agents due to potential excessive CNS effects or additive hypotension.
tiaGABine: (Moderate) Because of the possible additive effects of drugs that depress the central nervous system, benzodiazepines should be used with caution in patients receiving tiagabine.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ticagrelor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and ticagrelor is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as protease inhibitors, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tizanidine and CNS depressants like the benzodiazepines can cause additive CNS depression. The severity of this interaction may be increased when additional CNS depressants are given.
Tolcapone: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with other drugs have CNS depressant properties, including COMT inhibitors, can potentiate the CNS effects of either agent. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Topiramate has the potential to cause CNS depression as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The CNS depressant effects of topiramate can be potentiated pharmacodynamically by concurrent use of CNS depressant agents such as the benzodiazepines.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opiate agonists with benzodiazepines may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opiate pain medications with benzodiazepines to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If an opiate agonist is initiated in a patient taking a benzodiazepine, use a lower initial dose of the opiate and titrate to clinical response. If a benzodiazepine is prescribed for an indication other than epilepsy in a patient taking an opiate agonist, use a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with verapamil and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of benzodiazepines and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
traZODone: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of trazodone and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Treosulfan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with treosulfan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and treosulfan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant phenothiazine use and monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase the sedative effects of trihexyphenidyl.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the benzodiazepines, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the benzodiazepine.
Trimipramine: (Major) Limit dosage and duration of benzodiazepines during concomitant use with tricyclic antidepressants, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Additive CNS depression may occur.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Trofinetide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with trofinetide. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of tucatinib with triazolam is contraindicated due to the risk of serious adverse events, such as prolonged hypnotic and/or sedative effects. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Consider safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with tucatinib. Benzodiazepines not metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme (e.g., lorazepam, oxazepam) are less likely to be affected by strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Valerian, Valeriana officinalis: (Major) Any substances that act on the CNS, including psychoactive drugs and drugs used as anesthetic adjuvants (e.g., barbiturates, benzodiazepines), may theoretically interact with valerian, Valeriana officinalis. The valerian derivative, dihydrovaltrate, binds at barbiturate binding sites; valerenic acid has been shown to inhibit enzyme-induced breakdown of GABA in the brain; the non-volatile monoterpenes (valepotriates) have sedative activity. These interactions are probably pharmacodynamic in nature. There is a possibility of interaction with valerian at normal prescription dosages of anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics (including barbiturates and benzodiazepines). Patients who are taking barbiturates or other sedative/hypnotic drugs should avoid concomitant administration of valerian. Patients taking medications such as tricyclic antidepressants, lithium, MAOIs, skeletal muscle relaxants, SSRIs and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (e.g., duloxetine, venlafaxine) should discuss the use of herbal supplements with their health care professional prior to consuming valerian; combinations should be approached with caution in the absence of clinical data. Patients should not abruptly stop taking their prescribed psychoactive medications.
Vepdegestrant: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with vepdegestrant. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and vepdegestrant is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with verapamil and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given in combination with benzodiazepines.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as the benzodiazepines.
Viloxazine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with viloxazine. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and viloxazine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with vonoprazan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam when coadministered with weak CYP3A inhibitors, as clinically indicated. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with vonoprazan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam when coadministered with weak CYP3A inhibitors, as clinically indicated. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Clarithromycin is considered a strong inhibitor of this isoenzyme. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with vonoprazan. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam when coadministered with weak CYP3A inhibitors, as clinically indicated. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of triazolam, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as voriconazole, is contraindicated by the manufacturer of triazolam due to the risk for increased and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. Concurrent use is expected to produce large increases in systemic exposure to triazolam, with the potential for serious adverse effects.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with voxelotor. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with xanomeline. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and xanomeline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as zafirlukast, may reduce the metabolism of triazolam and increase the potential for benzodiazepine toxicity.
Zaleplon: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of zaleplon and benzodiazepines. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed.
Ziftomenib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with ziftomenib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a CYP3A substrate and ziftomenib is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Ziprasidone has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills. Additive CNS depressant effects are possible when ziprasidone is used concurrently with any CNS depressant.
Zolpidem: (Major) Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines with zolpidem can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. If used together, a reduction in the dose of one or both drugs may be needed. For Intermezzo brand of sublingual zolpidem tablets, reduce the dose to 1.75 mg/night. Concurrent use of zolpidem with other sedative-hypnotics, including other zolpidem products, at bedtime or the middle of the night is not recommended. In addition, sleep-related behaviors, such as sleep-driving, are more likely to occur during concurrent use of zolpidem and other CNS depressants than with zolpidem alone.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Tolerance (or tachyphylaxis) may develop to the sedative effects of benzodiazepines, including triazolam. Tolerance to the anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines has also been reported. If tolerance develops, clinicians should carefully assess the need for escalating doses. A temporary reduction in dosage may be beneficial in some cases to reverse the effects of tachyphylaxis. Daytime anxiety or wakefulness during the last third of the night may develop after several weeks of consistent nightly dosing with triazolam. These effects are thought to be due to the development of tolerance, which leads to a deficiency of benzodiazepine binding sites.Prolonged use of benzodiazepines can produce physiological dependence with or without psychological dependence. The risk of dependence increases with duration of treatment and in those with a history of alcohol or drug abuse. Dependence can occur following routine use of therapeutic doses for as few as 1—2 weeks, particularly during treatment with short-acting benzodiazepines. Extreme caution is advised when considering the use of triazolam in patients with a known or suspected history of substance abuse.Anterograde amnesia can occur following administration of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines, such as triazolam. The risk for developing anterograde amnesia increases at higher doses and with concurrent ingestion of alcohol. This reaction has been reported to occur more frequently with triazolam than with other benzodiazepines.Most of the adverse effects associated with triazolam therapy are dose-related and CNS-related including headache, drowsiness, ataxia, dizziness, confusion, depression, syncope, fatigue, tremor, and vertigo.Sedative-hypnotic medications have the potential to cause sleep-related behaviors such as sleep-driving, a state of driving after ingestion of a sedative-hypnotic while not fully awake and having no memory of the event. Other sleep-related behaviors may include sleep-walking (somnambulism) making phone calls or eating while asleep. The exact incidences among various sedative products are unknown; however patients should be informed of the risks prior to receiving any medication from this class.CNS stimulation can occur in as many as 10% of patients receiving benzodiazepines and is of particular significance in psychiatric patients and hyperactive children. This paradoxical effect is possibly due to disinhibition of previously inhibited responses. Symptoms of CNS stimulation include nightmares, talkativeness, excitement, mania, tremor, insomnia, anxiety, restlessness, euphoria, acute rage reactions, and hyperactivity. Benzodiazepine therapy usually should be discontinued if signs of CNS stimulation occur.Abrupt withdrawal of benzodiazepine therapy has been reported to cause withdrawal symptoms such as irritability, nervousness, and rebound insomnia. Benzodiazepine withdrawal is more likely to occur following abrupt cessation of excessive or prolonged doses, but it can occur following the discontinuance of therapeutic doses administered for as few as 1—2 weeks. Abdominal cramps, confusion, depression, perceptual disturbances, sweating, nausea, vomiting, paresthesias, photophobia, hyperacusis, tachycardia, and trembling also occur during benzodiazepine withdrawal, but the incidence of these reactions is lower. Convulsions, hallucinations, delirium, and paranoia also can occur. Benzodiazepines should be withdrawn cautiously and slowly, using a very gradual dosage-tapering schedule.Triazolam is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category X. Many benzodiazepines have been associated with teratogenesis. Use of benzodiazepines during pregnancy, particularly in the first trimester, increases the risk of congenital malformations and decreases viability.Anaphylactoid reactions (e.g., angioedema) may occur with sedative-hypnotics, such as triazolam, and may become evident as early as the initial dose. Airway obstruction resulting from angioedema of the tongue, glottis, or larynx may be fatal. Other symptoms suggestive of anaphylaxis may include dyspnea, throat closing, and nausea/vomiting. Patients should be instructed on the appropriate action in the event of an allergic reaction. Treatment with triazolam should not be reinitiated in patients who experience angioedema.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    amnesia, memory impairment
    General Information
    Anterograde amnesia or memory impairment can occur following administration of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines, such as triazolam. The risk for developing anterograde amnesia increases at higher doses and with concurrent ingestion of alcohol. This reaction has been reported to occur more frequently with triazolam than with other benzodiazepines. Memory impairment has been reported in 0.5% to 0.9% of patients receiving triazolam.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      amnesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      memory impairment
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abnormal dreams, ataxia, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, dysesthesia, EEG changes, euphoria, hallucinations, headache, paresthesias, syncope, weakness
    General Information
    Most adverse effects associated with triazolam are centrally-mediated, and may resolve with a reduction in dosage. During clinical trial evaluation of triazolam, the following adverse CNS effects occurred more frequently in patients receiving triazolam than placebo: drowsiness (14%), headache (9.7%), dizziness (7.8%), nervousness (5.2%), lightheadedness (4.9%), and ataxia/coordination disorders (4.6%). Adverse CNS effects reported in 0.5% to 0.9% of patients included euphoria, confusion, memory impairment, and depression. Rarely reported effects (less than 0.5%) included abnormal dreams, paresthesias, dysesthesia, and weakness. Other CNS and psychiatric events have included dystonic reaction (dystonia), sedation, dysarthria, muscle spasticity, hallucinations, delusions, abnormal behavior, falling, and syncope. Minor EEG changes of no known significance have been observed. The CNS effects of alcohol or other CNS depressants are additive to those of benzodiazepines. Geriatric or debilitated patients may be particularly sensitive to benzodiazepine-related CNS effects. Because triazolam can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, there is a higher risk of falls, particularly in the geriatric adult, with the potential for subsequent severe injuries.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dysesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      EEG changes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abnormal dreams
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    complex sleep-related behaviors, somnambulism
    General Information
    Sedative-hypnotic medications, such as triazolam, have the potential to cause complex sleep-related behaviors such as sleep-driving, a state of driving after ingestion of a sedative-hypnotic while not fully awake and having no memory of the event. Other complex sleep-related behaviors may include sleepwalking (somnambulism) making phone calls or eating while asleep. The exact incidences among various sedative products are unknown; however, patients should be informed of the risks before receiving any medication from this class. Somnambulism has been reported postmarketing with triazolam use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      complex sleep-related behaviors
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      somnambulism
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    agitation, insomnia, irritability, mania, nightmares, restlessness, tremor
    General Information
    Less commonly reported side effects of triazolam have included: dreaming / nightmares (less than 0.5%), insomnia (less than 0.5%), mania, agitation, restlessness, irritability, aggression, tremor, and behavioral changes (abnormal behavior). Rarely, paradoxical or disinhibitory reactions (including agitation, irritability, impulsivity, violent behavior, confusion, restlessness, excitement, and talkativeness) may occur, particularly in overdose. Triazolam usually should be discontinued if signs of CNS stimulation or disinhibition occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, glossitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    Nausea, sometimes associated with vomiting, occurred in 4.6% of patients receiving triazolam and at higher incidences than with placebo. Other adverse gastrointestinal effects reported in less than 0.5% of individuals taking triazolam included constipation, dysgeusia (taste alterations), diarrhea, and xerostomia. Anorexia, tongue discomfort, glossitis, stomatitis, and jaundice have been reported postmarketing. Death from hepatic failure occurred in one patient who was also receiving diuretic drugs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      glossitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    blurred vision, tinnitus
    General Information
    Adverse reactions sensory effects reported with triazolam at an incidence of 0.5 to 0.9% include visual disturbance (usually blurred vision is reported with benzodiazepines); tinnitus was reported at an incidence less than 0.5%.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    libido decrease, menstrual irregularity, urinary incontinence, urinary retention
    General Information
    Adverse genitourinary (GU) effects reported during triazolam use include changes in libido, menstrual irregularity, urinary incontinence, and urinary retention. Adverse GU/sexual effects including urinary incontinence, urinary retention, and libido decrease have been reported as potential side effects of other benzodiazepines.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      menstrual irregularity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    angioedema, pruritus, rash
    General Information
    Dermatologic reactions including dermatitis rash/allergy (less than 0.5%) have been reported during use of triazolam. Pruritus has been reported postmarketing. Reactions consistent with angioedema (e.g., dyspnea and throat closing) have been reported with triazolam and other benzodiazepines and may be fatal.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), hypotension, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Adverse cardiovascular effects reported during treatment with triazolam include sinus tachycardia (0.5% to 0.9%). Chest pain (unspecified) has been reported postmarketing. Hypotension has rarely been reported during treatment with other benzodiazepines.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    fatigue, muscle cramps, nasal congestion
    General Information
    General adverse effects not listed elsewhere that have been reported during treatment with triazolam include fatigue and muscle cramps/pain (each 0.5% to 0.9%), and nasal congestion (less than 0.5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    tolerance
    General Information
    Tolerance to triazolam may develop from continued therapy. Tolerance is a physiological state characterized by a reduced response to a drug after repeated administration (i.e., a higher dose of a drug is required to produce the same effect that was once obtained at a lower dose). Tolerance to the therapeutic effect of triazolam may develop; however, little tolerance develops to the amnestic reactions and other cognitive impairments caused by benzodiazepines.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    physiological dependence, psychological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Prolonged use of benzodiazepines can produce physiological dependence with or without psychological dependence. The risk of psychological dependence increases in those with a history of alcohol or substance abuse. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, and death. Caution is advised when considering the use of benzodiazepines in patients with a known or suspected history of substance abuse. To discourage abuse, prescribe the smallest appropriate quantity of the benzodiazepine and provide proper disposal instructions for unused drug. Avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants or other medications associated with addiction or abuse. Clinically significant physiological dependence may occur with continued use of benzodiazepines. The risks of dependence and withdrawal increase with longer treatment duration and higher daily dose. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of benzodiazepines after continued use may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening. Withdrawal symptoms may range from mild dysphoria and insomnia to a major withdrawal syndrome including abdominal and muscle cramps, vomiting, sweating, tremors, and seizures. In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months. Use a gradual dosage taper to lower the risk of withdrawal reactions when reducing the dose or discontinuing therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    respiratory depression
    General Information
    Respiratory depression can occur with benzodiazepine therapy, particularly with misuse, coadministration with other CNS depressants, or overdosage. Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids or alcohol may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    neonatal abstinence syndrome, neonatal respiratory depression
    General Information
    Benzodiazepines cross the placenta and may produce sedation, hypotonia, lethargy, and neonatal respiratory depression at birth. Monitor neonates exposed during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation, respiratory depression, hypotonia, and feeding problems. Neonatal withdrawal or a neonatal abstinence syndrome has also been reported following the ingestion of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines during the last weeks of pregnancy. Clinical manifestations of neonatal withdrawal may include hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties. These complications can appear shortly after delivery to 3 weeks after birth and persist from hours to several months, depending on the degree of dependence and pharmacokinetic profile of the benzodiazepine. Observe neonates who are exposed to benzodiazepines in utero during the later stages of pregnancy for symptoms of withdrawal and manage appropriately. Benzodiazepines should be withdrawn cautiously and slowly, using a very gradual dosage-tapering schedule.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal abstinence syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      neonatal respiratory depression
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Triazolam is a short-acting oral benzodiazepine indicated for the short-term (typically 7 to 10 days) management of insomnia. Compared to other benzodiazepine hypnotic agents, triazolam has a relatively shorter half-life and does not generate active metabolites. However, triazolam has been associated with numerous reports of retrograde amnesia and data suggest these effects may occur at a higher rate with triazolam than other benzodiazepine hypnotics. Benzodiazepines should generally be prescribed for short periods only due to the potential for dependence and cognitive impairment, and the availability of safer alternatives. The ASAM guidelines recommend re-evaluating the risks and benefits of ongoing benzodiazepine use at least every 3 months; for patients who are candidates for discontinuation, an individualized taper strategy should be used that considers dose, duration, and frequency of use. Due to the risks of dependence, daytime sedation, and possible effects on sleep architecture, the Veteran's Affairs/Departent of Defense (VA/DoD) guidelines for the management of chronic insomnia do not recommend the use of benzodiazepines. If possible, avoid coadministration of benzodiazepines and opioids due to the potential for profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death; patients receiving the combination should be monitored for respiratory depression and sedation. Additionally, sedative-hypnotic medications have been associated with the development of complex sleep-related behaviors (e.g., making phone calls, engaging in sexual activity, eating, or driving while not fully awake). All sedative-hypnotics have the potential to cause sleep-related behaviors; therefore, patients should be informed of the risks prior to receiving any medication from this class. Triazolam was approved by the FDA in 1982.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mechanism of Action: Benzodiazepines act at the level of the limbic, thalamic, and hypothalamic regions of the CNS and can produce any level of CNS depression required including sedation, hypnosis, skeletal muscle relaxation, and anticonvulsant activity. Recent evidence indicates that benzodiazepines exert their effects through enhancement of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-benzodiazepine receptor complex. GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter that exerts its effects at specific receptor subtypes designated GABA-A and GABA-B. GABA-A is the primary receptor subtype in the CNS and is thought to be involved in the actions of anxiolytics and sedatives.Specific benzodiazepine receptor subtypes are thought to be coupled to GABA-A receptors. Three types of BNZ receptors are located in the CNS and other tissues; the BNZ1 receptors are located in the cerebellum and cerebral cortex, the BNZ2 receptors in the cerebral cortex and spinal cord, and the BNZ3 receptors in peripheral tissues. Activation of the BNZ1 receptor is thought to mediate sleep while the BNZ2 receptor affects muscle relaxation, anticonvulsant activity, motor coordination, and memory. Benzodiazepines bind nonspecifically to BNZ1 and BNZ2 which ultimately enhances the effects of GABA. Unlike barbiturates which augment GABA responses by increasing the length of time that chloride channels are open, benzodiazepines enhance the effects of GABA by increasing GABA affinity for the GABA receptor. Binding of GABA to the site opens the chloride channel resulting in a hyperpolarized cell membrane that prevents further excitation of the cell.Benzodiazepines alleviate insomnia by decreasing the latency to sleep and increasing sleep continuity and total sleep time through their effects on GABA.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Triazolam is rapidly absorbed. The onset of action occurs within 15—30 minutes.
  Text
  Triazolam is administered orally. It is widely distributed and is 90% protein-bound. Triazolam crosses the placenta and may be distributed into breast milk. It undergoes oxidative metabolism in the liver. Subsequently, inactive glucuronides are formed, which are excreted in the urine. The elimination half-life is 1.5—5.5 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Triazolam is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Tablets
Administer before bedtime.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    0.5 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    0.25 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines are not available; however, an initial dosage of 0.125 mg PO at bedtime has been suggested for patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis).
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. No dosage adjustment is needed for patients on hemodialysis or CAPD.
