=== Dronedarone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3582)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Dronedarone is an antiarrhythmic agent developed to have similar efficacy to amiodarone with an improved safety and tolerability profile.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 800 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial flutter, heart failure, stroke, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash (unspecified), coagulopathy, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, weakness

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: A reversible, rapid increase in serum creatinine by approximately 0.1 mg/dl may occur within 7 days of dronedarone initiation. This change in creatinine is the result of an inhibition of creatinine's tubular secretion, with no effect on the glomerular filtration rate. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

Brand Names
  - Multaq

Dosage Forms
  - Multaq 400mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        400 mg PO twice daily. Clinical practice guidelines recommend dronedarone to maintain sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation. Avoid use in patients with New York Hear Association (NYHA) class III and IV heart failure or in patients who have had an episode of decompensated heart failure in the past 4 weeks.
    Heading
    For reduction in the risk of hospitalization for atrial fibrillation in patients in sinus rhythm with a history of paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  A reversible, rapid increase in serum creatinine by approximately 0.1 mg/dl may occur within 7 days of dronedarone initiation. This change in creatinine is the result of an inhibition of creatinine's tubular secretion, with no effect on the glomerular filtration rate. If an increase in creatinine occurs and plateaus, this value should be considered the patient's new baseline creatinine concentration.
 
Dronedarone is contraindicated in patients with NYHA Class IV heart failure or NYHA Class II—III heart failure with a recent decompensation requiring hospitalization or referral to a specialized heart failure clinic. These warnings are based on data from ANDROMEDA, a phase III placebo-controlled, double-blind study of dronedarone (400 mg twice daily) or matching placebo in high-risk patients with symptomatic heart failure and severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Results from an interim safety analysis revealed there was an excess risk of death in the dronedarone group after a median follow-up of 63 days. Of the 627 patients enrolled (target was 1000), there were 12 deaths (3.8%) in the placebo group and 25 deaths (8.1%) in the dronedarone group (HR 2.13; 95% CI 1.07—4.25; p = 0.027). The excess in mortality was predominately due to worsening heart failure (10 in the dronedarone group compared to 2 in the placebo group). There was also an excess in hospitalizations for cardiovascular reasons seen in the dronedarone group compared to placebo (71 vs. 51). Based on these interim data, the ANDROMEDA trial was stopped prematurely. Additionally, if patients experience new or worsening heart failure symptoms during treatment, consider discontinuing or suspending treatment with dronedarone.
 
Dronedarone should be used cautiously in patients with an uncorrected electrolyte imbalance, particularly hypokalemia and/or hypomagnesemia, as these conditions may predispose the patient to the development of proarrhythmias as well as potentially decrease the efficacy of dronedarone. Furthermore, use caution when coadministering dronedarone with medications that may cause hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia including potassium-depleting diuretics. The serum potassium concentration should be maintained within the normal range prior to and during dronedarone administration.
 
Dronedarone has caused symptomatic bradycardia and is contraindicated in patients with bradycardia = 500 milliseconds or a PR interval of > 280 milliseconds. Furthermore, dronedarone is contraindicated in patients taking other drugs or herbal products that prolong the QT interval, as concurrent use of dronedarone with these drugs could put the patient at an increased risk of developing TdP (see Drug Interactions). In addition to avoiding drug interactions, the potential for TdP can be reduced by avoiding the use of QT prolonging drugs in patients at substantial risk for TdP. Examples of general risk factors for TdP include congenital long QT syndrome, female sex, older age, significant bradycardia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and underlying cardiac disease (e.g., arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, acute myocardial ischemia).
 
Dronedarone is metabolized by the liver. Pharmacokinetic studies show that compared to patients with normal hepatic function, patients with moderate hepatic impairment have 1.3-fold higher dronedarone exposure and a 50% increase in the N-debutyl metabolite exposure. There is little clinical experience in patients with moderate hepatic disease; no dosage adjustment is necessary. Additionally, there is no clinical data of dronedarone use in patients with severe hepatic disease; therefore; use is contraindicated in this population.
 
Dronedarone is metabolized primarily by CYP3A and is contraindicated with the concomitant use of strong CYP 3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, cyclosporine, telithromycin, clarithromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir). Concurrent use of strong CYP 3A inhibitors can lead to a marked increase in dronedarone concentrations (see Drug Interactions).
 
Use caution when administering dronedarone to Asian patients. Pharmacokinetic studies show Asian males (Japanese) have an approximate 2-fold higher dronedarone exposure than Caucasian males.
 
In the clinical trials of dronedarone, 4500 patients were >= 65 years of age and 2000 of those were >= 75 years of age. The dronedarone exposure is 23% higher in patients >= 65 years of age compared to those < 65 years; however, no differences in safety or efficacy were noted between elderly patients when compared to the general study population.
 
Safety and effectiveness of dronedarone have not been established in children and adolescents less than 18 years of age.
 
Dronedarone is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category X and is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant. Dronedarone may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women. Dronedarone was found to be teratogenic to rats at the maximum recommended human dose and to rabbits at half the maximum recommended human dose. Teratogenic effects found in rats include cranioschisis, cleft palate, incomplete evagination of pineal body, brachygnathia, partially fused carotid arteries, truncus arteriosus, abnormal lobation of the liver, partially duplicated inferior vena cava, brachydactyly, ectrodactylia, syndactylia, and anterior and/or posterior club feet. Teratogenic effects seen in rabbits included anomalous ribcage and vertebrae and pelvic asymmetry. Premenopausal females who have not undergone a hysterectomy or oophorectomy must use effective contraception and be counseled regarding appropriate contraceptive choices while using dronedarone. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking dronedarone, the physician and patient need to discuss the risk to the pregnancy and the potential hazard to the fetus. In addition, pharmacokinetic data indicate dronedarone exposure is approximately 30% higher in females than males.
 
According to the manufacturer, it is unknown if dronedarone is excreted into human breast milk. It is excreted into the milk of lactating rats. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breast-feeding infants from dronedarone, a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or discontinue dronedarone, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. If a breast-feeding infant experiences an adverse effect related to a maternally administered drug, healthcare providers are encouraged to report the adverse effect to the FDA.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    heart failure, hypovolemia, New York Heart Association Class IV heart failure
    General Information
    Dronedarone is contraindicated in individuals with symptomatic heart failure with recent decompensation requiring hospitalization or New York Heart Association Class IV heart failure; dronedarone use in these populations doubles the risk of death. Worsening of heart failure has been reported with dronedarone. Marked increase in serum creatinine, pre-renal azotemia, and acute renal failure, often in individuals with heart failure or hypovolemia, have also been associated with dronedarone.
    Headline
    permanent atrial fibrillation
    General Information
    Dronedarone is contraindicated in individuals with permanent atrial fibrillation (i.e., individuals in whom normal sinus rhythm will not or can not be restored); dronedarone use in this population doubles the risk of cardiovascular death (largely arrhythmic), stroke (particularly in the first 2 weeks of therapy), and hospitalization for heart failure. Due to the increased stroke risk, only initiate dronedarone in individuals in sinus rhythm who are receiving appropriate antithrombotic therapy. Monitor cardiac rhythm no less often than every 3 months during dronedarone therapy.
    Headline
    AV block, bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation, sick sinus syndrome
    General Information
    Dronedarone is contraindicated in individuals with bradycardia, defined as a heart rate of less than 50 beats per minute, second or third-degree AV block or sick sinus syndrome unless a functioning pacemaker is present, a PR interval more than 280 milliseconds (i.e., first-degree AV block), or baseline QT prolongation (i.e., QTc interval more than 500 milliseconds), as well as in those receiving other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. Avoid dronedarone use in people who have other conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Dronedarone is associated with concentration-dependent QTcF interval prolongation; the estimated QTcF increase is 15 milliseconds with standard dosing.
    Headline
    hepatic failure, history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use
    General Information
    Dronedarone is contraindicated in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. There is no clinical experience with dronedarone in individuals with severe hepatic impairment and little clinical experience with dronedarone in individuals with moderate hepatic impairment; dronedarone is extensively metabolized by the liver. Dronedarone is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of significant adverse event(s) associated with previous use of amiodarone, specifically hepatotoxicity or pulmonary toxicity.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Dronedarone may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on animal data. Advise pregnant people of the potential fetal risk. In pregnant rats and rabbits, dronedarone caused multiple visceral and skeletal malformations at doses equivalent to or lower than the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) during organogenesis. Teratogenic effects found in rats include cranioschisis, cleft palate, incomplete evagination of the pineal body, brachygnathia, partially fused carotid arteries, truncus arteriosus, abnormal lobation of the liver, partially duplicated inferior vena cava, brachydactyly, ectrodactylia, syndactylia, and anterior and/or posterior club feet. Teratogenic effects seen in rabbits included anomalous rib-cage and vertebrae, and pelvic asymmetry.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with dronedarone. Dronedarone can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking dronedarone and for 5 days after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking dronedarone and for 5 days (approximately 6 half-lives) after the last dose, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of dronedarone in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Dronedarone is excreted into the milk of lactating rats.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Dronedarone may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on animal data. Advise pregnant people of the potential fetal risk. In pregnant rats and rabbits, dronedarone caused multiple visceral and skeletal malformations at doses equivalent to or lower than the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) during organogenesis. Teratogenic effects found in rats include cranioschisis, cleft palate, incomplete evagination of the pineal body, brachygnathia, partially fused carotid arteries, truncus arteriosus, abnormal lobation of the liver, partially duplicated inferior vena cava, brachydactyly, ectrodactylia, syndactylia, and anterior and/or posterior club feet. Teratogenic effects seen in rabbits included anomalous rib-cage and vertebrae, and pelvic asymmetry.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking dronedarone and for 5 days (approximately 6 half-lives) after the last dose, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of dronedarone in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Dronedarone is excreted into the milk of lactating rats.

Interactions
Abemaciclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Decrease the acalabrutinib dose to 100 mg PO once daily if coadministered with dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased acalabrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were increased by 2- to almost 3-fold when acalabrutinib was coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Acebutolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Diphenhydramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with dronedarone may alter dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to dihydrocodeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Dihydrocodeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to dihydromorphine, and by CYP3A4. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase dihydrocodeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Diphenhydramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like dronedarone can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If dronedarone is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. If dronedarone is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a moderate inhibitor like dronedarone can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If dronedarone is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with adagrasib is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dronedarone exposure and additive risk for QT prolongation. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of dronedarone and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of dronedarone. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor; coadministration may increase plasma concentrations of afatinib. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; drondarone also inhibits P-gp. Budesonide is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Alfentanil is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Alfuzosin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and alfuzosin is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce Torsade de Pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Aliskiren is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Aliskiren is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and dronedarone due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with dronedarone, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased alprazolam exposure by 1.6- to 1.98-fold.
Amiodarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of amiodarone and dronedarone due to increased amiodarone exposure and an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with amisulpride is contraindicated due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
Amitriptyline: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP3A, CYP2D6, and P-gp. Atorvastatin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. Monitor for signs and symptoms of myopathy in patients receiving dronedarone concurrently with atorvastatin. (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Amobarbital: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone with clarithromycin is contraindicated. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Omeprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Anagrelide: (Contraindicated) Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during post-marketing use of anagrelide. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce TdP and is contraindicated.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dronedarone with apalutamide due to decreased dronedarone exposure. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased dronedarone exposure by 80%.
Apomorphine: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce torsade de pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Dronedarone is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Avoid the concomitant use of dronedarone with aprepitant, fosaprepitant due to substantially increased exposure of aprepitant; increased dronedarone exposure may also occur. If coadministration cannot be avoided, use caution and monitor for an increase in dronedarone- and aprepitant-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and aprepitant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of daily oral aprepitant (230 mg, or 1.8 times the recommended single dose) with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, diltiazem, increased the aprepitant AUC 2-fold with a concomitant 1.7-fold increase in the diltiazem AUC; clinically meaningful changes in ECG, heart rate, or blood pressure beyond those induced by diltiazem alone did not occur. Dronedarone is also a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of dronedarone. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
ARIPiprazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of aripiprazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use also increases aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an aripiprazole dosage reduction is required; management recommendations vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, administer a quarter of the usual dose. For monthly extended-release aripiprazole injections (Abilify Maintena), reduce the dosage from 400 mg to 200 mg/month or from 300 mg to 160 mg/month. Aripiprazole is CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and arsenic trioxide is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce Torsade de Pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. TdP and complete atrioventricular block have been reported.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and artemether; lumefantrine is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor CYP3A. Artemether and lumefantrine are both substrates of CYP3A4. Coadministration of dronedarone and artemether; lumefantrine may result in elevated plasma concentrations of artemether; lumefantrine. In addition, artemether; lumefantrine has been established to have a possible risk of QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Dronedarone is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Asenapine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and asenapine is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce Torsade de Pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Omeprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. If dronedarone is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a moderate inhibitor like dronedarone can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If dronedarone is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dronedarone with atazanavir may increase dronedarone concentrations. Coadministration with atazanavir; cobicistat is contraindicated. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Atazanavir is an inhibitor CYP3A4. No data exist regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 inhibitors; therefore, use caution when coadministering dronedarone with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as atazanavir.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated dronedarone concentrations. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor/substrate and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is an inhibitor/substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. (Moderate) Concomitant use of dronedarone with atazanavir may increase dronedarone concentrations. Coadministration with atazanavir; cobicistat is contraindicated. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Atazanavir is an inhibitor CYP3A4. No data exist regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 inhibitors; therefore, use caution when coadministering dronedarone with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as atazanavir.
Atenolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Atomoxetine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone and atomoxetine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP3A, CYP2D6, and P-gp. Atorvastatin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. Monitor for signs and symptoms of myopathy in patients receiving dronedarone concurrently with atorvastatin.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration of avacopan as concurrent use may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Avanafil: (Major) Avanafil is a substrate of and primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. Studies have shown that drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 can increase avanafil exposure. Patients taking moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors including dronedarone, should take avanafil with caution and adhere to a maximum recommended adult avanafil dose of 50 mg/day.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with dronedarone due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and dronedarone due to the risk for increased defactinib exposure which may increase the risk for defactinib-related adverse effects. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Azithromycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone and azithromycin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Barbiturates: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Bedaquiline: (Contraindicated) Due to the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), concurrent use of dofetilide with bedaquiline is contraindicated. Prolongation of the QT interval is known to occur with both drugs, and concurrent use may result in additive QT prolongation.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with dronedarone may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinuation of dronedarone in a patient taking benzhydrocodone may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration of berotralstat as concurrent use may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Betaxolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Bexarotene: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and bexarotene should be avoided. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as bexarotene, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Bexarotene induces CYP3A4.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration of lenacapavir as concurrent use may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of metronidazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of metronidazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Bisoprolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Bosentan: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Bosentan induces and is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as bosentan, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy; plasma concentrations of bosentan may also be increased.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Because brexpiprazole is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6, the manufacturer recommends that the brexpiprazole dose be reduced to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose in patients receiving a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 in combination with a moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP2D6. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for brexpiprazole-related adverse reactions. A reduction of the brexpiprazole dose to 25% of the usual dose is also recommended in patients who are poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 and are receiving a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with dronedarone if possible due to increased plasma exposure of brigatinib; a decrease in dronedarone concentrations may also occur. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of brigatinib by approximately 40% without breaking tablets (i.e., from 180 mg to 120 mg; from 120 mg to 90 mg; from 90 mg to 60 mg); after discontinuation of dronedarone, resume the brigatinib dose that was tolerated prior to initiation of dronedarone. Brigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 40%. Dronedarone is also a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. At clinically relevant concentrations, brigatinib induced CYP3A via activation of the pregnane X receptor (PXR); this may decrease concentrations of sensitive CYP3A substrates.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Bromocriptine: (Major) Reduce the bromocriptine dosage during concomitant use with dronedarone; bromocriptine dosage reduction recommendations vary by indication and dosage form. For the treatment of type 2 diabetes with micronized bromocriptine quick-release tablets, do not exceed a bromocriptine dosage of 1.6 mg once daily. For all other indications and dosage forms, reduce the initial bromocriptine dosage to 1.25 mg once daily and reduce the maximum bromocriptine dosage to: 3.75 mg once daily for hyperprolactinemia-associated dysfunction, 2.5 mg once daily for prolactin-secreting adenomas, 25 mg once daily for acromegaly, and 12.5 mg twice daily for idiopathic or postencephalitic parkinsonism. Concomitant use may increase bromocriptine exposure. Bromocriptine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased bromocriptine exposure by up to 3.7-fold.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; drondarone also inhibits P-gp. Budesonide is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; drondarone also inhibits P-gp. Budesonide is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; drondarone also inhibits P-gp. Budesonide is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Meloxicam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Buprenorphine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone and buprenorphine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone and buprenorphine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Buspirone is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and rilpivirine is contraindicated. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Capivasertib: (Major) Reduce the dose of capivasertib to 320 mg PO twice daily for 4 days followed by 3 days off if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary; monitor for adverse reactions. Concomitant use may increase capivasertib exposure which may increase the risk for capivasertib-related adverse effects. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of capivasertib by up to 1.5-fold.
carBAMazepine: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Carbamazepine induces CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as carbamazepine, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Cariprazine: (Major) A cariprazine dosage reduction may be required during concomitant use with dronedarone. Cariprazine dosage modification recommendations vary by indication, previous exposure to cariprazine, and age. When initiating cariprazine in adults receiving dronedarone, reduce the cariprazine starting dose to 0.75 mg PO once daily; in adults with schizophrenia or bipolar mania, the cariprazine dose may be increased to 1.5 mg PO once daily, if needed, based on clinical response. Avoid initiating cariprazine in pediatric patients receiving dronedarone. When adding dronedarone to a stable dose of cariprazine, reduce the cariprazine dosage: from 1.5 mg or 3 mg once daily to 0.75 mg once daily, from 4.5 or 6 mg once daily to 1.5 mg once daily. Concomitant use increases cariprazine exposure and the risk for cariprazine-related adverse effects. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased cariprazine overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Carteolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Carvedilol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A. Tramadol is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone with ceritinib is contraindicated due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval; the increase is approximately 10 msec at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 msec at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, such as ceritinib, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Additionally, dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Chloramphenicol is an inhibitor CYP3A4. No data exist regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 inhibitors; therefore, use caution when coadministering dronedarone with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as chloramphenicol.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Chloroquine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of chloroquine with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy. (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like dronedarone can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If dronedarone is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpheniramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
chlorproMAZINE: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and chlorpromazine is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Chlorpromazine is a substrate for CYP2D6. Coadministration of dronedarone and chlorpromazine may result in elevated plasma concentrations of chlorpromazine. In addition, chlorpromazine has been established to have a causal association with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation and is contraindicated.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Cilostazol is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Cimetidine is an inhibitor CYP3A4. Concomitant use of dronedarone with cimetidine may also increase dronedarone concentrations. No data exist regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 inhibitors; therefore, use caution when coadministering dronedarone with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as cimetidine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone and ciprofloxacin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone and citalopram due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone with clarithromycin is contraindicated. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Clofazimine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of clofazimine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
clomiPRAMINE: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Clonazepam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
cloZAPine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and clozapine is contraindicated. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death and dronedarone is associated with dose-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation; concomitant use is contraindicated. In addition, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A, two of the isoenzymes responsible for the metabolism of clozapine. Coadministration of dronedarone and clozapine may result in elevated plasma concentrations of clozapine, which may potentially increase the risk of life-threatening arrhythmias or other adverse effects. According to the manufacturer of clozapine, concomitant use of clozapine and substrates or inhibitors of CYP2D6 may require lower doses of either drug.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated dronedarone concentrations. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor/substrate and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is an inhibitor/substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of cobimetinib with chronic dronedarone therapy due to the risk of cobimetinib toxicity. If concurrent short-term (14 days or less) use of dronedarone is unavoidable, reduce the dose of cobimetinib to 20 mg once daily for patients normally taking 60 mg daily; after discontinuation of dronedarone, resume cobimetinib at the previous dose. Use an alternative to dronedarone in patients who are already taking a reduced dose of cobimetinib (40 or 20 mg daily). Cobimetinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate as well as a CYP3A substrate in vitro; dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and a weak P-gp inhibitor. In healthy subjects (n = 15), coadministration of a single 10 mg dose of cobimetinib with itraconazole (200 mg once daily for 14 days), a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the mean cobimetinib AUC by 6.7-fold (90% CI, 5.6 to 8) and the mean Cmax by 3.2-fold (90% CI, 2.7 to 3.7).
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of promethazine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of promethazine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with dronedarone may alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as reduced efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal or prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage adjustment of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of dronedarone could alter codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in an unpredictable effect such as prolonged opioid adverse reactions or decreased opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If dronedarone is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider adjusting the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. CYP3A inhibitors may increase codeine-related adverse effects while CYP2D6 inhibitors may reduce efficacy.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and dronedarone due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with other dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors has been observed to increase colchicine overall exposure by 2- to 3.6-fold.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration of conivaptan as concomitant use may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of crizotinib with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Crizotinib has also been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
cycloSPORINE: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone and cyclosporine is contraindicated. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP3A and P-gp. Cyclosporine is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate for P-gp. Repeated doses of ketoconazole, also a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased dronedarone exposure 17-fold and increased dronedarone Cmax 9-fold. No data exist regarding the safe administration of dronedarone with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors; therefore, concomitant use is contraindicated. Also, the effects of dronedarone on the pharmacokinetics of cyclosporine have not been described, although an increase in cyclosporine serum concentrations is possible.
Dabigatran: (Major) Increased serum concentrations of dabigatran are possible when dabigatran, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, is coadministered with dronedarone, a P-gp inhibitor. Patients should be monitored for increased adverse effects of dabigatran. When dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery, avoid coadministration with P-gp inhibitors like dronedarone in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute. When used in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation, avoid the coadministration of dabigatran and dronedarone in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute), and reduce the dabigatran dose to 75 mg twice daily when dronedarone and dabigatran are coadministered in patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 50 mL/min). Simultaneous administration of dabigatran and dronedarone (administered once or twice daily) increases exposure to dabigatran by 70 to 140% compared to dabigatran alone. The increase in exposure is only 30 to 60% higher compared to dabigatran alone when dronedarone is administered 2 hours after dabigatran. P-gp inhibition and renal impairment are the major independent factors that result in increased exposure to dabigatran.
Dabrafenib: (Major) The concomitant use of dabrafenib and dronedarone may lead to decreased dronedarone concentrations and loss of efficacy. Use of an alternative agent is recommended. If concomitant use of these agents together is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of dronedarone efficacy. Dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and dronedarone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use of dabrafenib with a single dose of another sensitive CYP3A4 substrate decreased the AUC value of the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate by 65%.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Minor) Monitor patients for hypoglycemia if saxagliptin and dronedarone are used together. The metabolism of saxagliptin is primarily mediated by CYP3A4/5; saxagliptin plasma concentrations may increase in the presence of moderate CYP 3A4/5 inhibitors such as dronedarone.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Dapsone is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 100 mg once daily if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor is predicted to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Daridorexant: (Major) Limit the daridorexant dose to 25 mg if coadministered with dronedarone. Concomitant use may increase daridorexant exposure and the risk for daridorexant-related adverse effects. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased daridorexant overall exposure 2.4-fold.
Darifenacin: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A. Darifenacin is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of darunavir with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated dronedarone concentrations and the potential for serious and/or life threatening reactions, such as cardiac arrhythmias. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate; darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated dronedarone concentrations. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor/substrate and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is an inhibitor/substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of darunavir with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated dronedarone concentrations and the potential for serious and/or life threatening reactions, such as cardiac arrhythmias. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate; darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated dronedarone concentrations. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor/substrate and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is an inhibitor/substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of darunavir with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated dronedarone concentrations and the potential for serious and/or life threatening reactions, such as cardiac arrhythmias. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate; darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dasatinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and dasatinib is contraindicated. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong cardiac ventricular repolarization (prolong QT interval). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Deflazacort: (Major) Decrease deflazacort dose to one third of the recommended dosage when coadministered with dronedarone. Concurrent use may significantly increase concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in an increased risk of toxicity. Deflazacort is a CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. Administration of deflazacort with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased total exposure to 21-desDFZ by about 3-fold.
Degarelix: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade des pointes (TdP), the use of degarelix with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Desflurane: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of halogenated anesthetics and dronedarone is contraindicated. Halogenated anesthetics prolong the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Desipramine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Deutetrabenazine: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of deutetrabenazine with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Diphenhydramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and quinidine is contraindicated. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Diazepam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Diclofenac is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Diclofenac is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Digoxin: (Major) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Digoxin is a substrate for P-gp. In clinical trials, the coadministration of dronedarone and digoxin resulted in an increase in the exposure of digoxin by 2.5-fold, with a subsequent increase in gastrointestinal adverse effects. Furthermore, digoxin can potentiate the electrophysiologic effects of dronedarone (e.g., decreased AV node conduction). In clinical trials, sudden death was more common in patients receiving combined therapy with dronedarone and digoxin than in patients on either therapy alone. It is unclear if combination therapy contributed to this increase or if this was related to the presence of advanced heart disease. According to the manufacturer of dronedarone, concurrent administration of dronedarone and digoxin should be avoided. However, if coadministration is unavoidable, a 50% reduction in the digoxin dose is recommended. The manufacturer of digoxin recommends measuring serum digoxin concentrations before initiating dronedarone and reducing digoxin concentrations by decreasing the digoxin dose by approximately 30-50% or by modifying the dosing frequency; continue monitoring.
Dihydroergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and dronedarone. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
dilTIAZem: (Major) If coadministered with dronedarone, initiate diltiazem at a low dose and increase only after ECG verification of good tolerability. Both diltiazem and dronedarone are substrates and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors; increased exposure to both drugs may occur. Additionally, the conduction effects of dronedarone may be potentiated by concurrent use of calcium channel blockers with depressant effects on the sinus and AV nodes.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Diphenhydramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Diphenhydramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Diphenhydramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Diphenhydramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Disopyramide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and disopyramide is contraindicated. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Disulfiram: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Disulfiram is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
DOCEtaxel: (Major) Docetaxel is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp and dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; dronedarone also inhibits P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate; concomitant use of these agents should be used with extreme caution and possibly avoided in elderly patients. Fatal pan mucositis was reported in an elderly patient who was receiving docetaxel for metastatic prostate cancer and dronedarone to control atrial fibrillation in a case report. This 79-year-old man presented to the hospital with grade 4 mucositis and febrile neutropenia following his third cycle of docetaxel after receiving dronedarone for appoximately 6 weeks. Despite neutrophil recovery, he experienced skin and cutaneous lesion deterioration, grade 4 stomatitis, necrotic conjunctivitis, and grade 4 keratitis; no infectious etiology for mucositis was identified. A docetaxel level of 2.4 ng/ml was detected 14 days after the last infusion; this detectable docetaxel level was unexpected. The patient subsequently died of ICU-acquired sepsis. Consider using an alternate antiarrhythmic agent in patients receiving docetaxel. Following a risk/benefit analysis, if docetaxel is administered in a patient who also requires dronedarone, monitor patient for signs of severe stomatitis/mucositis or cutaneous reactions and other serious side effects associated with docetaxel (eg, paresthesias/dysesthesias, asthenia, febrile neutropenia, infection).
Dofetilide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and dofetilide is contraindicated. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce TdP and is contraindicated.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and rilpivirine is contraindicated. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce torsade de pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce torsade de pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy. Donepezil is considered a drug with a known risk of TdP.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Dordaviprone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and dronedarone due to the risk for increased dordaviprone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the dordaviprone dose to 500 mg once weekly for adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 52.5 kg; the dosage for pediatric patients weighing less than 52.5 kg is unknown. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use is predicted to increase dordaviprone overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Doxepin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dronedarone with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor; doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-gp. Concurrent use of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dronedarone with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor; doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and P-gp. Concurrent use of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
droNABinol: (Major) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with dronedarone is necessary, and monitor for an increase in dronabinol-related adverse reactions (e.g., feeling high, dizziness, confusion, somnolence). Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and 3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant use may result in elevated plasma concentrations of dronabinol.
droPERidol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and droperidol is contraindicated. Droperidol should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving other agents that may prolong the QT interval. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). In December 2001, the FDA issued a black box warning regarding the use of droperidol and its association with QT prolongation and potential for cardiac arrhythmias based on post-marketing surveillance data. According to the revised 2001 labeling for droperidol, any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of dronedarone. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Therefore, concomitant use with drugs that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as dronedarone, should be avoided.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of duvelisib and dronedarone during coadministration. Coadministration may increase the exposure of both drugs. Duvelisib is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP3A; dronedarone is a sensitive substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Edoxaban: (Moderate) Coadministration of edoxaban and dronedarone may result in increased concentrations of edoxaban. Edoxaban is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of dronedarone; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban. Dosage reduction may be considered for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism.
Efavirenz: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Efavirenz has also been associated with QT prolongation. Because of the potential for QT prolongation and TdP, use of efavirenz with dronedarone is contraindicated.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Efavirenz has also been associated with QT prolongation. Because of the potential for QT prolongation and TdP, use of efavirenz with dronedarone is contraindicated. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Efavirenz has also been associated with QT prolongation. Because of the potential for QT prolongation and TdP, use of efavirenz with dronedarone is contraindicated. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elacestrant and dronedarone due to the risk of increased elacestrant exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased elacestrant overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering elbasvir; grazoprevir with dronedarone may cause the plasma concentrations of all three drugs to increase; thereby increasing the potential for adverse effects (i.e., elevated ALT concentrations and hepatotoxicity). Dronedarone is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Both elbasvir and grazoprevir are metabolized by CYP3A, and grazoprevir is also a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of hepatotoxicity.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with dronedarone. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with dronedarone; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) If dronedarone and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold. (Major) Reduce the dosing frequency of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor to every other day in the morning when coadministered with dronedarone; omit the ivacaftor evening dose and administer in the morning every other day alternating with elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor (i.e., recommended dose of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor on day 1 in the morning and recommended dose of ivacaftor on day 2 in the morning). Coadministration may increase elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. Elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 2.9-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase elexacaftor and tezacaftor exposure by 2.3-fold and 2.1-fold, respectively.
Eliglustat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and eliglustat is contraindicated. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitor associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval; its use is contraindicated with other drugs that prolong the QT interval. Eliglustat is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate that is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Coadministration of dronedarone and eliglustat may result in additive effects on the QT interval and signficantly increased plasma concentrations eliglustat, further increasing the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elinzanetant: (Major) Decrease the elinzanetant dosage to 60 mg daily if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase elinzanetant exposure and the risk for elinzanetant-related adverse effects. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase elinzanetant overall exposure by 1.4- to 3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated dronedarone concentrations. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor/substrate and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is an inhibitor/substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cobicistat with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated dronedarone concentrations. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor/substrate and a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat is an inhibitor/substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and rilpivirine is contraindicated. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and rilpivirine is contraindicated. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone use is contraindicated with other medications that may prolong the QT/QTc interval and increase the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP), such as encorafenib. Concomitant use may also decrease dronedarone exposure and efficacy and increase encorafenib exposure and the risk for encorafenib-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, an encorafenib dosage reduction is required: reduce a daily dose of 450 mg to 225 mg, reduce a daily dose of 300 mg to 150 mg, reduce the daily dose to 75 mg for all other dosages. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor, encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications may prolong the QT interval. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased encorafenib overall exposure by 2-fold. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer significantly decreased dronedarone exposure.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with dronedarone due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dronedarone exposure and QT prolongation. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Entrectinib: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone use is contraindicated with medications that may prolong the QT/QTc interval, such as entrectinib, due to the additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Concomitant use may also increase entrectinib exposure. While coadministration is not recommended, if use is necessary in adults and pediatric patients 2 years and older, reduce the dose of entrectinib (600 mg/day or 400 mg/day to 200 mg/day; 300 mg/day to 100 mg/day; 200 mg/day to 50 mg/day) and limit coadministration to 14 days or less. For pediatric patients with a starting dose less than 200 mg, avoid coadministration. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Entrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of entrectinib by 3-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dronedarone with enzalutamide due to decreased dronedarone exposure. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased dronedarone exposure by 80%.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Eplerenone: (Major) Do not exceed an eplerenone dose of 25 mg PO once daily if given concurrently with a CYP3A4 inhibitor in a post-myocardial infarction patient with heart failure. In patients with hypertension receiving a concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitor, initiate eplerenone at 25 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg PO twice daily for inadequate blood pressure response. In addition, measure serum creatinine and serum potassium within 3 to 7 days of initiating a CYP3A4 inhibitor and periodically thereafter. Eplerenone is a CYP3A4 substrate. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased eplerenone exposure by 100% to 190%. Increased eplerenone concentrations may lead to a risk of developing hyperkalemia and hypotension.
Ergotamine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and dronedarone. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and dronedarone. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
eriBULin: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce Torsade de Pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Contraindicated drugs inclue dronedarone.
Erythromycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of erythromycin and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Escitalopram: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of escitalopram and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) In vivo studies suggest eslicarbazepine is an inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 substrates, such as dronedarone, may result in decreased serum concentrations of the substrate. The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided.
Esmolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Esomeprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Estazolam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Ethosuximide is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Etonogestrel: (Minor) Coadministration of etonogestrel and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors such as dronedarone may increase the serum concentration of etonogestrel.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE. (Minor) Coadministration of etonogestrel and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors such as dronedarone may increase the serum concentration of etonogestrel.
Etrasimod: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone is contraindicated with other medications that may prolong the QT/QTc interval, such as etrasimod. Additionally, concomitant use may increase etrasimod exposure and the risk for etrasimod-related adverse effects especially in patients who are CYP2C9 poor metabolizers. Etrasimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and should not be coadministered with CYP3A4 inducers, such as etravirine. Concurrent use may result in reduced dronedarone plasma concentration and treatment effectiveness.
Everolimus: (Major) Coadministration of everolimus with dronedarone requires a dose reduction for some indications and close monitoring for others. For patients with oncology indications and tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC)-associated renal angiomyolipoma, reduce the initial dose of everolimus to 2.5 mg PO once daily; the dose may be increased to 5 mg PO once daily if the 2.5 mg dose is tolerated. For patients with TSC-associated subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) and TSC-associated partial-onset seizures, reduce the daily dose of everolimus by 50%, changing to every-other-day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength; assess the everolimus whole blood trough concentration 2 weeks after initiation of dronedarone and adjust the dose as necessary to remain in the recommended therapeutic range. Also monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations for patients receiving everolimus for either kidney or liver transplant and adjust the dose as necessary to remain in the recommended therapeutic range. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4/P-gp inhibitors increased the AUC of everolimus by 3.5 to 4.4-fold.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 10 mg/day in patients taking dronedarone due to increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on dronedarone, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of dronedarone and simvastatin against the potential risks. Dronedarone increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 4-fold.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration. Coadministration may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Fedratinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A; dronedarone is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and dronedarone should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent use of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and half-life by approximately 2.5-fold and 2-fold, respectively.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. If dronedarone is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors like dronedarone can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If dronedarone is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Fexinidazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of fexinidazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also limit conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites, reducing its efficacy. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Finasteride; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Tadalafil is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or dronedarone; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia.
Fingolimod: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of fingolimod and dronedarone is contraindicated. Fingolimod may prolong the QT interval and is contraindicated for use by patients with a baseline QTc interval >= 500 msec. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Flecainide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of flecainide and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Flibanserin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of flibanserin and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as dronedarone, is contraindicated. Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase flibanserin concentrations, which can cause severe hypotension and syncope. If initiating flibanserin following use of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, start flibanserin at least 2 weeks after the last dose of the CYP3A4 inhibitor. If initiating a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor following flibanserin use, start the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor at least 2 days after the last dose of flibanserin.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and fluconazole is contraindicated. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
FLUoxetine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of fluoxetine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
fluPHENAZine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and fluphenazine is contraindicated. Fluphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Flurazepam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Flutamide: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Flutamide induces and is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as flutamide, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy; plasma concentrations of flutamide may also be increased.
fluvoxaMINE: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), concurrent use of dronedarone and fluvoxamine is contraindicated. Dronedarone is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is about 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Cases of QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine. In addition, dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and fluvoxamine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant use of dronedarone with fluvoxamine may increase dronedarone concentrations.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in adverse reactions from both drugs if concurrent use of dronedarone and fosamprenavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of both drugs. Dronedarone and fosamprenavir are both CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors.
Foscarnet: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Because of the potential for TdP, use of foscarnet with dronedarone is contraindicated.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Fosfomycin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Fosphenytoin induces CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as fosphenytoin, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Fostemsavir: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of fostemsavir with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gefitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in gefitinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary; the risk is increased in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. Based on in vitro data, gefitinib is metabolized to O-desmethyl gefitinib by CYP2D6 and dronedarone is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. In healthy CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, the concentration of O-desmethyl gefitinib was not measurable and mean exposure to gefitinib was 2-fold higher compared to extensive metabolizers. The impact of CYP2D6 inhibitors on gefitinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated; however, the manufacturer recommends precautions based on exposure in patients with poor CYP2D6 metabolism.
Gemifloxacin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of gemifloxacin and dronedarone is contraindicated. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5-10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce Torsade de Pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of gemtuzumab ozogamicin with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab ozogamicin, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds (msec) at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 msec at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Gepirone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and dronedarone due to the risk for increased gepirone exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Decrease the gepirone dose by 50% and monitor for QT/QTc prolongation and TdP if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased gepirone overall exposure by 2.6-fold. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of gepotidacin and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase gepotidacin exposure and the risk for other gepotidacin-related adverse effects. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase gepotidacin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Gilteritinib: (Contraindicated) Use of gilteritinib with dronedarone is contraindicated because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP). Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Dronedarone is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of givinostat and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of glasdegib and dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of glecaprevir and dronedarone as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of glecaprevir and increase the risk of adverse effects. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of pibrentasvir and dronedarone as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of pibrentasvir and increase the risk of adverse effects. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); dronedarone is an inhibitor of P-gp.
Goserelin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of goserelin with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., goserelin) is known to prolong the QT interval.
Granisetron: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of granisetron and dronedarone is contraindicated. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer, use of granisetron in patients concurrently treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval and/or are arrhythmogenic, may result in clinical consequences. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Grapefruit juice: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dronedarone and grapefruit juice should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Grapefruit juice is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and grapefruit juice results in an increase in dronedarone exposure by 3-fold and increase in dronedarone Cmax of 2.5-fold. No data exist regarding the appropriate dose adjustment needed to allow safe administration of dronedarone and grapefruit juice.
guanFACINE: (Major) Dronedarone may significantly increase guanfacine plasma concentrations. FDA-approved labeling for extended-release (ER) guanfacine recommends that, if these agents are taken together, the guanfacine dosage should be decreased to half of the recommended dose. Specific recommendations for immediate-release (IR) guanfacine are not available. Monitor patients closely for alpha-adrenergic effects including hypotension, drowsiness, lethargy, and bradycardia. Upon dronedarone discontinuation, the guanfacine ER dosage should be increased back to the recommended dose. Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of halogenated anesthetics and dronedarone is contraindicated. Halogenated anesthetics prolong the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Haloperidol: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone and haloperidol is contraindicated. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of histrelin with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., histrelin) is known to prolong the QT interval.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like dronedarone can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If dronedarone is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like dronedarone can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If dronedarone is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors like dronedarone can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced with a combined CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. If dronedarone is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
hydrOXYzine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of hydroxyzine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and dronedarone due to the risk for increased iberdomide exposure which may increase the risk for iberdomide-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the iberdomide dose to 0.75 mg once daily on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle; if a dose modification for adverse effects is also needed, further decrease the iberdomide dose to 1 mg every other day on Days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase iberdomide overall exposure by 1.7-fold.
Ibrutinib: (Major) If ibrutinib is coadministered with dronedarone, reduce the ibrutinib dosage to 280 mg/day PO in patients receiving ibrutinib for B-cell malignancy. Resume ibrutinib at the previous dosage if dronedarone is discontinued. No initial ibrutinib dosage adjustment is necessary in patients receiving ibrutinib for chronic graft-versus-host disease. Monitor patients for ibrutinib toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, bleeding, infection); modify the ibrutinib dosage as recommended if toxicity occurs. Ibrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. When ibrutinib was administered with multiple doses of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, the AUC value of ibrutinib was increased by 3-fold.
Ibutilide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of ibutilide and dronedarone is contraindicated. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce Torsade de Pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with dronedarone, a CYP3A substrate, as dronedarone toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in the efficacy of ifosfamide if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Ifosfamide is metabolized by CYP3A4 to its active alkylating metabolites. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of these active metabolites, decreasing the effectiveness of ifosfamide treatment.
Iloperidone: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone and iloperidone is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A. Iloperidone is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Coadministration of dronedarone and iloperidone may result in increased plasma concentrations of iloperidone. In addition, iloperidone has been established to have a possible association with QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Dronedarone is associated with dose-related increases in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Imipramine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of infigratinib and dronedarone. Coadministration may increase infigratinib exposure, increasing the risk of adverse effects. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of inotuzumab with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with dronedarone may result in increased serum concentrations of both drugs. Dronedarone is a substrate and inhibitor of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a sensitive substrate and moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isoflurane: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of halogenated anesthetics and dronedarone is contraindicated. Halogenated anesthetics prolong the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Use of dronedarone during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole treatment is contraindicated due to the potential for elevated dronedarone concentrations and QT prolongation. Serious cardiovascular events such as EKG changes (i.e., QT prolongation) and cardiac arrhythmias, including ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes, may occur. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate that is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. Itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 substrate that is also associated with QT prolongation. Repeated doses of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased dronedarone exposure 17-fold and increased dronedarone Cmax 9-fold.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivabradine and dronedarone as increased concentrations of ivabradine are possible. Ivabradine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4; dronedarone inhibits CYP3A4. Increased ivabradine concentrations may result in bradycardia exacerbation and conduction disturbances.
Ivacaftor: (Major) If dronedarone and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and ivosidenib is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. Ivosidenib has been associated with QTc prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of dronedarone, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased dronedarone exposure by approximately 17-fold.
Labetalol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Lacosamide: (Moderate) Lacosamide causes PR interval prolongation in some patients. Caution is advised during coadministration of lacosamide with other drugs that cause PR prolongation, such as dronedarone, since further PR prolongation is possible. If concurrent use is necessary, an ECG is recommended prior to initiation of lacosamide and after the drug is titrated to the maintenence dose. Patients receiving intravenous lacosamide should be closely monitored due to the potential for profound bradycardia and AV block during coadministration.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Landiolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Lansoprazole: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Lansoprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone with clarithromycin is contraindicated. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Lansoprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Lapatinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of lapatinib with dronedarone is contraindicated. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and TdP have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib. Dronedarone administration is also associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Larotrectinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in larotrectinib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase larotrectinib exposure. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase larotrectinib exposure by 2.7-fold.
Lefamulin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with lefamulin is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and dronedarone as concurrent use is expected to significantly increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of lemborexant with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the lemborexant AUC by up to 4.5-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration of lenacapavir as concurrent use may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lenvatinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of dronedarone with lenvatinib is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has also been reported with lenvatinib therapy.
Letermovir: (Moderate) A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of dronedarone is expected if given with letermovir. Coadministration is contraindicated in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified.
Leuprolide: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of leuprolide with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., leuprolide) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Levobunolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
levoFLOXacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of levofloxacin and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Additionally, concomitant use may increase the exposure of dronedarone, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased dronedarone exposure by approximately 17-fold.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and dronedarone may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; dronedarone inhibits CYP3A4.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and dronedarone may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; dronedarone inhibits CYP3A4. (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and dronedarone may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; dronedarone inhibits CYP3A4.
Lithium: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of lithium and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lofexidine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of lofexidine and dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Lofexidine is a CYP2D6 substrate that prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and dronedarone is contraindicated; concurrent use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of adverse effects. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; dronedarone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Loperamide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of loperamide and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of loperamide and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase loperamide exposure and the risk for other loperamide-related adverse effects; loperamide is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with ritonavir is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dronedarone exposure and QT prolongation. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lopinavir; ritonavir with dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Dronedarone is highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Lopinavir; ritonavir is a potent CYP3A inhibitor and is also associated with QT prolongation.
Losartan: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Losartan is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Losartan is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Lovastatin: (Major) Although FDA-approved labeling for lovastatin recommends limiting the dose of lovastatin to 20 mg/day if combined with dronedarone, guidelines recommend limiting the lovastatin dose to 10 mg/day during concurrent use. Lovastatin exposure may increase resulting in increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Lovastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) If dronedarone and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold. (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of dronedarone by decreasing its systemic exposure; avoid concomitant use. Dronedarone is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Induction of dronedarone through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy. Although ivacaftor exposure may increase when given with a CYP3A inhibitor, ivacaftor; lumacaftor dosage adjustments are not recommended with concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inducer such as dronedarone.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of dronedarone by decreasing its systemic exposure; avoid concomitant use. Dronedarone is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Induction of dronedarone through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy. Although ivacaftor exposure may increase when given with a CYP3A inhibitor, ivacaftor; lumacaftor dosage adjustments are not recommended with concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inducer such as dronedarone.
Lumateperone: (Major) Reduce the dose of lumateperone to 21 mg once daily if concomitant use of dronedarone is necessary. Concurrent use may increase lumateperone exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lumateperone is a CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased lumateperone exposure by approximately 2-fold.
Lurasidone: (Major) Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and has the potential for interactions with substrates of CYP3A4 such as lurasidone. Concurrent use of these medications may lead to an increased risk of lurasidone-related adverse reactions. If a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 is being prescribed and lurasidone is added in an adult patient, the recommended starting dose of lurasidone is 20 mg/day and the maximum recommended daily dose of lurasidone is 80 mg/day. If a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is added to an existing lurasidone regimen, reduce the lurasidone dose to one-half of the original dose. Patients should be monitored for efficacy and toxicity.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lurbinectedin and dronedarone due to the risk of increased lurbinectedin exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the dose of lurbinectedin by 50%. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the overall exposure of lurbinectedin by up to 2.3-fold.
Macimorelin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for TdP, use of macimorelin with dronedarone is contraindicated. Before administering macimorelin, discontinue use of dronedarone and allow a sufficient washout period to pass. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Tadalafil is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of maraviroc with dronedarone is necessary, due to a possible increase in maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and dronedarone is a CYP3A4/P-gp inhibitor. Monitor for an increase in adverse effects with concomitant use.
Mavacamten: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting dronedarone therapy. Avoid initiation of dronedarone in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable dronedarone therapy. Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and dronedarone. If concomitant therapy with dronedarone is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Mavorixafor: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mavorixafor exposure and the risk for mavorixafor-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Contraindicated) There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. However, due to the lack of clinical data and the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), concurrent use of mefloquine and dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Meloxicam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Meloxicam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Minor) Monitor patients for hypoglycemia if saxagliptin and dronedarone are used together. The metabolism of saxagliptin is primarily mediated by CYP3A4/5; saxagliptin plasma concentrations may increase in the presence of moderate CYP 3A4/5 inhibitors such as dronedarone.
Methadone: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone and methadone is contraindicated. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Methamphetamine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Methohexital: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Methylergonovine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of methylergonovine with dronedarone. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure and the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Coadministration of methylprednisolone with dronedarone may cause elevated methylprednisolone serum concentrations, potentially resulting in Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression. Monitor closely. Methylprednisolone is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Metoprolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of metronidazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Midazolam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Midostaurin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of midostaurin with dronedarone is contraindicated. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds (msec) at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 msec at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mifepristone and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Mirtazapine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mirtazapine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Mitapivat: (Moderate) Do not exceed mitapivat 20 mg PO twice daily during coadministration with dronedarone and monitor hemoglobin and for adverse reactions from mitapivat. Coadministration increases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mitapivat overall exposure by 2.6-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mitotane with dronedarone; if coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of dronedarone. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of dronedarone. The AUC and Cmax of dronedarone were significantly reduced when given with rifampin, another strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Mobocertinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. If use cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Moxifloxacin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and moxifloxacin is contraindicated. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with administration of moxifloxacin. Post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including torsade de pointes (TdP), usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce TdP and is contraindicated.
Nadolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Nafcillin: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Nafcillin induces CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as nafcillin, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Naldemedine: (Major) Monitor for potential naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with dronedarone. The plasma concentrations of naldemedine may be increased during concurrent use. Naldemedine is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp; dronedarone is a weak P-gp inhibitor and a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Naloxegol: (Major) Avoid concomitant administration of naloxegol and dronedarone due to the potential for increased naloxegol exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, decrease the naloxegol dosage to 12.5 mg once daily and monitor for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal symptoms such as hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning. Naloxegol is a CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased naloxegol exposure by approximately 3.4-fold.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paclitaxel-related adverse reactions if coadministration of nab-paclitaxel with dronedarone is necessary due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. In vitro, coadministration with both strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased paclitaxel exposure; however, the concentrations used exceeded those found in vivo following normal therapeutic doses. The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel may also be altered in vivo as a result of interactions with CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and dronedarone. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Esomeprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Nebivolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone and nefazodone is contraindicated due to the potential for increased exposure to dronedarone; nefazodone concentrations may also increase. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Nefazodone is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a CYP3A substrate. Repeated doses of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased dronedarone exposure 17-fold and increased dronedarone Cmax 9-fold. No data exist regarding the safe administration of dronedarone with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors; therefore, concomitant use is contraindicated. The effects of dronedarone on the pharmacokinetics of nefazodone have not been described, although an increase in nefazodone serum concentrations is possible.
Nelfinavir: (Moderate) Dronedarone and nelfinavir should be coadministered with caution. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Nelfinavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with imatinib may result in increased plasma concentrations of either drug.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone with neratinib due to an increased risk of neratinib-related toxicity. Neratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a dual moderate CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor. Simulations using physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models suggest that another dual moderate CYP3A4/P-gp inhibitor may increase neratinib exposure by 299%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Coadminister dronedarone and palonosetron together with caution. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Palonsetron is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Coadministration of dronedarone and palonosetron may result in elevated plasma concentrations of palonsetron. (Moderate) Concomitant use of dronedarone and netupitant; palonosetron should be approached with caution due to a possible risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) from dronedarone. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, and a primary substrate for CYP3A4. Palonosetron is metabolized by CYP3A4. Netupitant is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of dronedarone and netupitant; palonosetron may result in elevated plasma concentrations of palonsetron, netupitant, or dronedarone. Dronedarone is associated with dose-related increases in the QTc interval. Co-administration of single dose netupitant 600 mg and palonosetron 1.5 mg had no significant effects on the QTc interval.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in nifedipine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Nifedipine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and nilotinib is contraindicated. Nilotinib prolongs the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Dual inhibitors of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and CYP3A4, such as dronedarone, are expected to increase the exposure and clinical effect of nintedanib. If use together is necessary, closely monitor for increased nintedanib side effects including gastrointestinal toxicity (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, loss of appetite), headache, elevated liver enzymes, and hypertension. A dose reduction, interruption of therapy, or discontinuation of nintedanib therapy may be necessary. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of P-gp and a mild inhibitor of CYP3A4; nintedanib is a P-gp substrate and a minor CYP3A4 substrate. In drug interactions studies, administration of nintedanib with a dual P-gp and CYP3A4 inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with ritonavir is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dronedarone exposure and QT prolongation. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and dronedarone is contraindicated; consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase dronedarone exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and dronedarone due to the risk for increased nirogacestat exposure which may increase the risk for nirogacestat-related adverse effects. Concomitant use may also increase dronedarone exposure and the risk for dronedarone -related adverse effects. Both medications are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase nirogacestat overall exposure by 2.73- to 3.18-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) In general, coadministration of nisoldipine with dronedarone should be avoided due to increased nisoldipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor and nisoldipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE.
Nortriptyline: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Ofloxacin: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ofloxacin and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
OLANZapine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and olanzapine is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Olanzapine is a substrate for CYP2D6. Coadministration of dronedarone and olanzapine may result in elevated plasma concentrations of olanzapine. In addition, olanzapine has been established to have a possible risk of QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of fluoxetine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and olanzapine is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Olanzapine is a substrate for CYP2D6. Coadministration of dronedarone and olanzapine may result in elevated plasma concentrations of olanzapine. In addition, olanzapine has been established to have a possible risk of QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and olanzapine is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Olanzapine is a substrate for CYP2D6. Coadministration of dronedarone and olanzapine may result in elevated plasma concentrations of olanzapine. In addition, olanzapine has been established to have a possible risk of QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with dronedarone due to the risk of increased olaparib-related adverse reactions. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of olaparib to 150 mg twice daily; the original dose may be resumed 3 to 5 elimination half-lives after dronedarone is discontinued. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; concomitant use may increase olaparib exposure. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the olaparib Cmax by 14% and the AUC by 121%.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and base subsequent doses on the patient's severity of pain and response to treatment if concomitant administration of oliceridine and dronedarone is necessary; less frequent dosing of oliceridine may be required. Concomitant use of oliceridine and dronedarone may increase the plasma concentration of oliceridine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects; these effects may be more pronounced with dronedarone as it can inhibit multiple CYP enzymes. If dronedarone is discontinued, consider increasing the oliceridine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oliceridine is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and dronedarone. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Omeprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Omeprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Omeprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Ondansetron: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and ondansetron is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, CYP3A, and P-gp. Ondansetron is a substrate for CYP2D6, CYP3A4, and P-gp. Coadministration of dronedarone and ondansetron may result in elevated plasma concentrations of ondansetron. In addition, ondansetron has been established to have a possible risk of QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Oritavancin: (Major) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of dronedarone may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
Osilodrostat: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with osilodrostat is contraindicated due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of osimertinib with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone is associated with a risk for QT prolongation and TdP. Osimertinib causes concentration dependent prolongation of the QT interval at recommended dosing. Additive QT prolongation is possible.
Oveporexton: (Major) Decrease the oveporexton dosage to 0.5 mg twice daily if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase oveporexton exposure and the risk for oveporexton-related adverse reactions. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased oveporexton overall exposure by 2.9-fold.
Oxaliplatin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of oxaliplatin with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal TdP have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in post-marketing experience. Additive QT prolongation is possible.
OXcarbazepine: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Oxcarbazepine induces CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as oxcarbazepine, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Oxybutynin is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. If dronedarone is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a moderate inhibitor like dronedarone can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If dronedarone is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Ozanimod: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with ozanimod is contraindicated due to the risk for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; dronedarone also inhibits P-gp. Paclitaxel is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Pacritinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of pacritinib and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase pacritinib exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pacritinib exposure by 1.45-fold.
Paliperidone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and paliperidone is contraindicated. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Palonosetron: (Moderate) Coadminister dronedarone and palonosetron together with caution. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Palonsetron is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Coadministration of dronedarone and palonosetron may result in elevated plasma concentrations of palonsetron.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and dronedarone due to the risk for increased palovarotene exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the palovarotene dose by half. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased palovarotene overall exposure by 2.5-fold.
Panobinostat: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of panobinostat with dronedarone is contraindicated. QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Paricalcitol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Paricalcitol is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase paroxetine exposure. Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Pasireotide: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), use of pasireotide and dronedarone is contraindicated. Coadministration of pasireotide and drugs that prolong the QT interval may have additive effects on the prolongation of the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce TdP and is contraindicated.
PAZOPanib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pazopanib and dronedarone is contraindicated. Pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and dronedarone due to the risk of increased pemigatinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pemigatinib to 9 mg PO once daily if original dose was 13.5 mg per day and to 4.5 mg PO once daily if original dose was 9 mg per day. If dronedarone is discontinued, resume the original pemigatinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of dronedarone. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase pemigatinib exposure by approximately 50% to 80%.
Pentamidine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and pentamidine is contraindicated. Pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
PENTobarbital: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Perphenazine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and perphenazine is contraindicated. Perphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and perphenazine is contraindicated. Perphenazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pexidartinib and dronedarone due to the risk of increased pexidartinib exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pexidartinib dosage as follows: 500 mg/day or 375 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg twice daily; 250 mg/day of pexidartinib, reduce to 125 mg once daily. If dronedarone is discontinued, increase the pexidartinib dose to the original dose after 3 plasma half-lives of dronedarone. Pexidartinib is a CYP3A substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased pexidartinib overall exposure by 67%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Topiramate induces CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Phenytoin: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Phenytoin induces CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as phenytoin, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Pimavanserin: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Because pimavanserin causes QT prolonging effects that may be additive to those of dronedarone, coadministration is contraindicated.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and pimozide is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Pimozide is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of dronedarone and pimozide may result in elevated plasma concentrations of pimozide. In addition, pimozide has been established to have a causal association with QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Dronedarone is associated with dose-related increases in the QTc interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation; concomitant use is contraindicated.
Pindolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Pitolisant: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with pitolisant is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Pivekimab sunirine: (Moderate) Monitor for pivekimab sunirine-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure to FGN849, the cytotoxic component of pivekimab sunirine. FGN849 is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Ponesimod: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with ponesimod is contraindicated due to the risk for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of posaconazole and dronedarone is contraindicated due to the risk of life threatening arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). Both posaconazole and dronedarone are inhibitors of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of dronedarone. Further, dronedarone is an inhibitor of the drug efflux protein, P-glycoprotein, for which posaconazole is a substrate and an inhibitor. This complex interaction may ultimately result in altered plasma concentrations of both posaconazole and dronedarone and an increased risk for serious adverse events. Additionally, posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a combined moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another combined moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 108%.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Prednisolone is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; dronedarone also inhibits P-gp. Prednisone is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking antiarrhythmics for the development of arrhythmias. Epinephrine may produce ventricular arrhythmias in patients who are on drugs that may sensitize the heart to arrhythmias.
Primaquine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of primaquine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Primidone: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and dronedarone due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with other dual moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors has been observed to increase colchicine overall exposure by 2- to 3.6-fold.
Procainamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of procainamide and dronedarone is contraindicated. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Prochlorperazine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and prochlorperazine is contraindicated. Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of promethazine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of promethazine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Use of dextromethorphan with dronedarone may result in increased dextromethorphan exposure. Dronedarone inhibits CYP2D6 and dextromethorphan is a CYP2D6 substrate. Monitor for dextromethorphan-related side effects, such as drowsiness, nausea or vomiting, sweating, restlessness, or tremor.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of promethazine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Propafenone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of propafenone and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT prolongation.
Propranolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Protriptyline: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Quazepam is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
QUEtiapine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and quetiapine is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Quetiapine is a substrate for CYP3A4. Coadministration of dronedarone and quetiapine may result in elevated plasma concentrations of quetiapine. In addition, quetiapine has been established to have a possible risk for QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and quinidine is contraindicated. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
quiNINE: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc, such as quinine, may induce torsade de pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Quizartinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of quizartinib and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
RABEprazole: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Rabeprazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Ramelteon is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and ranolazine is contraindicated due to the risk of QT prolongation. Both dronedarone and ranolazine prolong the QT-interval in a dose-related manner. In addition, coadministration of dronedarone and ranolazine may result in elevated plasma concentrations of both drugs, further increasing the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone and ranolazine are both substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A. In addition, ranolazine is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with relacorilant is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dronedarone exposure and QT prolongation. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of relugolix with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Concomitant use may also increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of relugolix with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval. Concomitant use may also increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and dronedarone due to the risk for increased remibrutinib exposure which may increase the risk for remibrutinib-related adverse effects. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased remibrutinib overall exposure by 2.3-fold.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Repaglinide is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with dronedarone due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Revumenib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of ribociclib with dronedarone is contraindicated. Additionally, the systemic exposure of ribociclib may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions (e.g., neutropenia, QT prolongation). Both drugs have been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Ribociclib is also extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Additionally, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of ribociclib with dronedarone is contraindicated. Additionally, the systemic exposure of ribociclib may be increased resulting in an increase in treatment-related adverse reactions (e.g., neutropenia, QT prolongation). Both drugs have been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Ribociclib is also extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Additionally, ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dronedarone with rifampin due to the potential for decreased dronedarone exposure and efficacy. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin significantly decreased dronedarone exposure.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dronedarone with rifapentine due to the potential for decreased dronedarone exposure and efficacy. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased dronedarone exposure.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and rilpivirine is contraindicated. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and dronedarone due to the risk for increased rilzabrutinib exposure and the risk for rilzabrutinib-related adverse effects; dronedarone exposure may also increase. Both rilzabrutinib and dronedarone are CYP3A substrates and moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 3-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with dronedarone; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
risperiDONE: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone with risperidone is contraindicated due to the potential risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk of QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. In addition, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Risperidone is a substrate for CYP2D6. Concomitant use of dronedarone with risperidone may increase risperidone concentration and further increase the risk for adverse cardiac effects.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration of ritlecitinib as concurrent use may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with ritonavir is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dronedarone exposure and QT prolongation. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Rivaroxaban: (Moderate) Avoid concomitant administration of rivaroxaban and dronedarone in patients with CrCl 15 to 80 ml/min unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor. Rivaroxaban is a substrate of CYP3A4/5 and the P-gp transporter. Pharmacokinetic data from a trial with erythromycin indicate that concurrent use of rivaroxaban and drugs that are combined P-gp inhibitors and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors in patients with renal impairment results in increased exposure to rivaroxaban compared to patients with normal renal function and no inhibitor use. Significant increases in rivaroxaban exposure may increase bleeding risk. However, while an increase in exposure to rivaroxaban may be expected, results from an analysis of the ROCKET-AF trial which allowed concomitant administration of rivaroxaban and a combined P-gp inhibitor and weak or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor did not show an increased risk of bleeding in patients with CrCl 30 to < 50 ml/min [HR (95% CI): 1.05 (0.77, 1.42)].
romiDEPsin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of romidepsin and dronedarone is contraindicated. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of dronedarone and saquinavir boosted with ritonavir is contraindicated due to the risk of life threatening arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir causes dose-dependent QT and PR prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Both saquinavir boosted with ritonavir and dronedarone are inhibitors and substrates of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4. Further, dronedarone is an inhibitor of the drug efflux pump, P-glycoprotein, for which saquinavir is a substrate. Repeated doses of ketoconazole, also a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased dronedarone exposure 17-fold and increased dronedarone Cmax 9-fold. No data exist regarding the safe administration of dronedarone with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors; therefore, concomitant use is contraindicated. Also, the effects of dronedarone on the pharmacokinetics of saquinavir have not been described, although an increase in saquinavir serum concentrations is possible.
sAXagliptin: (Minor) Monitor patients for hypoglycemia if saxagliptin and dronedarone are used together. The metabolism of saxagliptin is primarily mediated by CYP3A4/5; saxagliptin plasma concentrations may increase in the presence of moderate CYP 3A4/5 inhibitors such as dronedarone.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Decrease the sebetralstat dose by 50% if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sebetralstat exposure and the risk for sebetralstat-related adverse effects. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sebetralstat overall exposure by 2-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Barbiturates induce CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Ethinyl estradiol (EE) is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Concomitant use of dronedarone with ethinyl estradiol may increase dronedarone concentrations. Data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone did not increase ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel concentrations in healthy subjects receiving dronedarone concomitantly with oral contraceptives. Use caution with any combined oral contraceptives or combined hormonal replacements containing EE, as most of these products contain EE, or they contain mestranol, which is converted to EE. (Minor) Coadministration of segesterone, a CYP3A4 substrate and a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as dronedarone, may increase the serum concentration of segesterone.
Seladelpar: (Minor) Monitor patients who are known CYP2C9 poor metabolizers more frequently for an increase in seladelpar-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use in these patients may increase seladelpar exposure. Seladelpar is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Selpercatinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of dronedarone and selpercatinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of selpercatinib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the dose of selpercatinib (160 mg twice daily to 120 mg twice daily; 120 mg twice daily to 80 mg twice daily; 80 mg twice daily to 40 mg twice daily; 40 mg three times daily to 40 mg once daily). Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase selpercatinib exposure by 1.66-fold to 1.99-fold.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and dronedarone due to the risk of increased selumetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce the dose of selumetinib to 20 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 25 mg/m2 twice daily and 15 mg/m2 PO twice daily if original dose was 20 mg/m2 twice daily. If dronedarone is discontinued, resume the original selumetinib dose after 3 elimination half-lives of dronedarone. Selumetinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase selumetinib exposure by 41%.
Sertraline: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of sertraline and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevabertinib: (Moderate) Monitor for sevabertinib-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sevabertinib exposure. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Sevoflurane: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of halogenated anesthetics and dronedarone is contraindicated. Halogenated anesthetics prolong the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sildenafil-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary; a dose reduction of sildenafil may be necessary when prescribed for erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; dronedarone also inhibits P-gp. Silodosin is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Simvastatin: (Major) Do not exceed a simvastatin dose of 10 mg/day in patients taking dronedarone due to increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. For patients chronically receiving simvastatin 80 mg/day who need to be started on dronedarone, consider switching to an alternative statin with less potential for interaction. Carefully weigh the benefits of combined use of dronedarone and simvastatin against the potential risks. Dronedarone increases the simvastatin exposure by approximately 4-fold.
Siponimod: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with siponimod is contraindicated due to the risk of QT prolongation; increased exposure to siponimod is also possible. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A4 dual inhibitor led to a 2-fold increase in the exposure of siponimod.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of dronedarone. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use of other moderate CYP3A and P-gp inhibitors increased sirolimus overall exposure by 2.2- to 4.2-fold.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with dronedarone. Taking these drugs together may increase the plasma concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in adverse events. Velpatasvir is a substrate of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); dronedarone is an inhibitor of P-gp. Dronedarone is also an inhibitor of the hepatic enzyme CYP3A4. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Use caution when administering velpatasvir with dronedarone. Taking these drugs together may increase the plasma concentrations of velpatasvir, potentially resulting in adverse events. Velpatasvir is a substrate of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp); dronedarone is an inhibitor of P-gp. Dronedarone is also an inhibitor of the hepatic enzyme CYP3A4. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Solifenacin: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and solifenacin is contraindicated, because of the potential for torsade de Pointes (TdP). Solifenacin has been associated dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. TdP has been reported with post-marketing use, although causality was not determined. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce TdP and is contraindicated.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and dronedarone; sonidegib levels may be significantly increased resulting in increased risk of adverse events, particularly musculoskeletal toxicity. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Physiologic-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations indicate a moderate 3A4 inhibitor would increase the sonidegib AUC by 1.8-fold if administered for 14 days and by 2.8-fold if the moderate CYP3A inhibitor is administered with sonidegib for more than 14 days.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
SORAfenib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and sorafenib is contraindicated. Sorafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Sotalol: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of sotalol and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sparsentan-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sparsentan exposure. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased sparsentan overall exposure by 70%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum induces CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as St. John's Wort, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of dronedarone when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of dronedarone resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Dronedarone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if dronedarone must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of dronedarone is necessary. If dronedarone is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor like dronedarone can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If dronedarone is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
SUNItinib: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for TdP, use of sunitinib with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Sunitinib can cause dose-dependent QT prolongation, which may increase the risk for ventricular arrhythmias, including torsades de points (TdP). Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Suvorexant: (Major) Suvorexant is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, and the manufacturer recommends a dose reduction to 5 mg of suvorexant during concurrent use with moderate CYP3A inhibitors and a maximum recommended dose of 10 mg/day. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, and increased plasma concentrations of suvorexant are possible during concurrent use of these drugs.
Suzetrigine: (Major) A suzetrigine dosage reduction is required during concomitant use of dronedarone. Beginning with dose 5 and for subsequent doses, administer suzetrigine 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase suzetrigine exposure and the risk for suzetrigine-related adverse effects. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. When the recommended dosage reduction is applied, concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and tacrolimus is contraindicated. Tacrolimus prolongs the QTc interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Tadalafil: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Tadalafil is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor.
Taletrectinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and dronedarone due to the risk for increased taletrectinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase taletrectinib overall exposure by up to 2.6-fold.
Tamoxifen: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of tamoxifen and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tamsulosin: (Major) Plasma concentrations of tamsulosin may be increased with concomitant use of dronedarone. Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 hepatic enzymes. In clinical evaluation, concomitant treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in significant increases in tamsulosin exposure. Therefore, concomitant use with drugs that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, such as dronedarone, should be avoided.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Caution is recommended during concurrent use of tasimelteon and dronedarone. Because tasimelteon is partially metabolized via CYP3A4, use with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as dronedarone, may increase exposure to tasimelteon with the potential for adverse reactions.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tazemetostat with dronedarone due to the risk for increased tazemetostat exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease current tazemetostat daily dosage by 50% (e.g., decrease 800 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO twice daily; 600 mg PO twice daily to 400 mg PO for first dose and 200 mg PO for second dose; 400 mg PO twice daily to 200 mg PO twice daily). Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased tazemetostat overall exposure by 3.1-fold.
Telavancin: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and telavancin is contraindicated. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hypotension and edema if amlodipine is coadministered with dronedarone; an amlodipine dose adjustment may be necessary due to increased amlodipine exposure. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Temsirolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use is likely to lead to increased concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Caution is advised when administering tenofovir, PMPA, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, concurrently with inhibitors of P-gp, such as dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased absorption of tenofovir. Monitor for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions.
Tetrabenazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and tetrabenazine is contraindicated. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with dronedarone; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) If dronedarone and ivacaftor are taken together, administer ivacaftor at the usual recommended dose but reduce the frequency to once daily. Coadministration is not recommended in patients younger than 6 months. Ivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Aminophylline is a substrate for CYP3A4, CYP1A2, and CYP2E1. Although the concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate, data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone does not increase the steady state aminophylline exposure. (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Theophylline is a substrate for CYP3A4, CYP1A2, and CYP2E1. Although the concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate, data from clinical studies indicate dronedarone does not increase the steady state theophylline exposure.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and thioridazine is contraindicated. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Thioridazine is a substrate for CYP2D6. Coadministration of dronedarone and thioridazine may result in increased plasma concentrations of thioridazine. In addition, thioridazine has been established to have a causal association with QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
tiaGABine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Tiagabine is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased bleeding if ticagrelor is coadministered with dronedarone. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ticagrelor. Ticagrelor is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A; dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A.
Timolol: (Major) In dronedarone clinical trials, bradycardia was seen more frequently in patients also receiving beta blockers. If coadministration of dronedarone and a beta blocker is unavoidable, administer a low dose of the beta blocker initially and increase the dosage only after ECG verification of tolerability. Concomitant administration may decreased AV and sinus node conduction. Furthermore, dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and some beta blockers are substrates for CYP2D6 (e.g., metoprolol, propranolol, nebivolol, carvedilol). Coadministration of dronedarone with a single dose of propranolol and multiple doses of metoprolol increased propranolol and metoprolol exposure by 1.3- and 1.6-fold, respectively.
Tinidazole: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Tinidazole is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone and tipranavir is contraindicated. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A, is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, and is an inhibitor of P-gp. Tipranavir is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Repeated doses of ketoconazole, also a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased dronedarone exposure 17-fold and increased dronedarone Cmax 9-fold. No data exist regarding the safe administration of dronedarone with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors; therefore, concomitant use is contraindicated. Also, the effects of dronedarone on the pharmacokinetics of tipranavir have not been described, although an increase in tipranavir serum concentrations is possible.
Tolterodine: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsades de pointes (TdP), concurrent use of tolterodine and dronedarone is contraindicated. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce TdP and is contraindicated.
Tolvaptan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dronedarone when tolvaptan is administered for hyponatremia. In patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), reduce tolvaptan dosage if administered with dronedarone. In ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan 90mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 60 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 30 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening; for those receiving tolvaptan 45 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening, reduce the dose to 15 mg every morning and 15 mg every evening. Consider additional dosage reduction if the reduced dose is not tolerated. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the tolvaptan AUC by 200%.
Topiramate: (Major) The concomitant use of dronedarone and CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Topiramate induces CYP3A4. Coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers, such as topiramate, with dronedarone may result in reduced plasma concentration and subsequent reduced effectiveness of dronedarone therapy.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dronedarone with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; dronedarone may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and dronedarone is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Toremifene: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of toremifene with dronedarone is contraindicated. Both drugs are associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
traMADol: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A. Tramadol is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A and is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A. Tramadol is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) If coadministered with dronedarone, initiate verapamil at a low dose and increase only after ECG verification of good tolerability. Both verapamil and dronedarone are substrates and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors; increased exposure to both drugs may occur. Additionally, the conduction effects of dronedarone may be potentiated by concurrent use of calcium channel blockers with depressant effects on the sinus and AV nodes.
traZODone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of trazodone and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tretinoin-related adverse effects if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tretinoin exposure. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with dronedarone and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Triclabendazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of triclabendazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Trifluoperazine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of trifluoperazine and dronedarone is contraindicated. Trifluoperazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Trimipramine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone and tricyclic antidepressants is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have pharmacologic properties like the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), use of triptorelin with dronedarone is contraindicated. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (e.g., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with tucatinib is contraindicated due to the potential for increased dronedarone exposure and QT prolongation. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg and avoid a second dose within 24 hours if coadministered with dronedarone. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor resulted in a 3.5-fold increase in the exposure of ubrogepant.
Ulipristal: (Minor) Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and dronedarone is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concomitant use may increase the plasma concentration of ulipristal resulting in an increased risk for adverse events.
Vandetanib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and vandetanib is contraindicated. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Dronedarone administration is also associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Adjust the tezacaftor; ivacaftor dosing schedule when coadministered with dronedarone; coadministration may increase tezacaftor; ivacaftor exposure and adverse reactions. When combined, dose 1 tezacaftor; ivacaftor combination tablet every other day in the morning and 1 ivacaftor tablet every other day in the morning on alternate days (i.e., tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablet on Day 1 and ivacaftor tablet on Day 2). The evening dose of ivacaftor should not be taken. Both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate); dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased ivacaftor exposure 3-fold. Simulation suggests a moderate inhibitor may increase tezacaftor exposure 2-fold. (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of dronedarone; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg every other day. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg every other day. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 3.9- and 5.1-fold, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Decrease the vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor dosage during concomitant use of dronedarone; concomitant use may increase vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure and the risk for vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor-related adverse effects. Specific dosing recommendations vary by age and weight. For all patients 12 years and older, and patients younger than 12 years weighing at least 40 kg, reduce the dose to 1 tablet of vanzacaftor 10 mg; tezacaftor 50 mg; deutivacaftor 125 mg every other day. For patients younger than 12 years weighing less than 40 kg, reduce the dose to 2 tablets of vanzacaftor 4 mg; tezacaftor 20 mg; deutivacaftor 50 mg every other day. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 3.9- and 5.1-fold, respectively.
Vardenafil: (Contraindicated) Use of dronedarone with vardenafil is contraindicated due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Increased vardenafil exposure may occur due to dronedarone inhibition of CYP3A4. An increase in vardenafil-related adverse effects, such as prolonged erection, hypotension, or QT prolongation, is possible. Dronedarone is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. Coadministration of other drugs that also prolong the QT interval may result in additive QT prolongation. Vardenafil is associated with QT prolongation. Therapeutic and supratherapeutic doses of vardenafil can produce an increase in QTc interval. Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4, the primary isoenzyme responsible for the metabolism of vardenafil. Increased systemic vardenafil exposure may occur.
Vemurafenib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of vemurafenib and dronedarone is contraindicated. Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with dronedarone due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of dronedarone. Venetoclax is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; dronedarone is a CYP3A4 (moderate) and P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
Venlafaxine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of venlafaxine and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Vepdegestrant: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Verapamil: (Major) If coadministered with dronedarone, initiate verapamil at a low dose and increase only after ECG verification of good tolerability. Both verapamil and dronedarone are substrates and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors; increased exposure to both drugs may occur. Additionally, the conduction effects of dronedarone may be potentiated by concurrent use of calcium channel blockers with depressant effects on the sinus and AV nodes.
vinBLAStine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinblastine-related adverse reactions, including myelosuppression, constipation, and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Vinblastine is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Enhanced vinblastine toxicity was reported with coadministration of another moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; dronedarone also inhibits P-gp. Vincristine is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A; dronedarone also inhibits P-gp. Vincristine is a substrate for CYP3A4 and P-gp. The concomitant administration of dronedarone with CYP3A4 and P-gp substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Voclosporin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of voclosporin and dronedarone is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Voclosporin exposure and the risk for voclosporin-related adverse effects may also be increased. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the voclosporin dosage to 15.8 mg PO in the morning and 7.9 mg PO in the evening. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate that is associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor that is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The dronedarone-induced increase in QTc is approximately 10 msec at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 msec at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase voclosporin exposure by 3-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone with clarithromycin is contraindicated. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Use caution during concurrent use of vorapaxar and dronedarone. Increased serum concentrations of vorapaxar are possible when vorapaxar, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with dronedarone, a CYP3A inhibitor. Increased exposure to vorapaxar may increase the risk of bleeding complications.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of dronedarone and voriconazole is contraindicated. Voriconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of arrhythmias, including TdP. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Vorinostat: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of dronedarone and vorinostat is contraindicated. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dronedarone during coadministration of voxelotor as concurrent use may increase the exposure of dronedarone. Dronedarone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with dronedarone is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zafirlukast: (Moderate) Dronedarone and zafirlukast should be coadministered with caution. Dronedarone is metabolized by CYP3A. Zafirlukast is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Concomitant use of dronedarone with zafirlukast may increase dronedarone concentrations.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Decrease the zanubrutinib dose to 80 mg PO twice daily if coadministered with dronedarone. Coadministration may result in increased zanubrutinib exposure and toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, and atrial arrhythmias). Further decrease the zanubrutinib dose as recommended if adverse reactions occur. After discontinuation of dronedarone, resume the previous dose of zanubrutinib. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. The AUC of zanubrutinib is predicted to increase by 157% to 317% when coadministered with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Zidesamtinib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and dronedarone. Concomitant use increases the risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation and may increase zidesamtinib exposure and the risk for zidesamtinib-related adverse effects. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation.
Ziftomenib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase ziftomenib exposure and the risk for other ziftomenib-related adverse effects. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate, dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is estimated to increase ziftomenib overall exposure by 2-fold.
Ziprasidone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ziprasidone and dronedarone is contraindicated since there is an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dronedarone is contraindicated for concomitant use with drugs that prolong the QT interval and might increase the risk of TdP. Ziprasidone is contraindicated with any drugs that list QT prolongation as a pharmacodynamic effect when this effect has been described within the contraindications or bolded or boxed warnings of the official labeling for such drugs, including dronedarone. Dronedarone induces a moderate (average of about 10 milliseconds but much greater effects have been observed) prolongation of the QTc (Bazett). Ziprasidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) It is advisable to closely monitor zolpidem tolerability and safety during concurrent use of dronedarone, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, since CYP3A4 is the primary isoenzyme responsible for zolpidem metabolism. There is evidence of an increase in pharmacodynamics effects and systemic exposure of zolpidem during co-administration with some potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as azole antifungals.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  A reversible increase in serum creatinine concentration of approximately 0.1 mg/dL can occur after initiation of dronedarone therapy. This increase occurs rapidly and plateaus by day 7 of dronedarone treatment. The change in serum creatinine concentration occurs due to an inhibition of the tubular secretion of creatinine and has no effect on glomerular filtration rate. In clinical trials of dronedarone, an increase in serum creatinine concentration of >= 10% by 5 days following treatment initiation was seen in 51% of patients receiving dronedarone compared to 21% of those receiving placebo.
 
In placebo-controlled clinical trials for dronedarone, the most common gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported, compared to placebo, were diarrhea (9% vs. 6%), nausea/vomiting (2—5% vs. 1—3%), abdominal pain (4% vs. 3%), and dyspepsia (2% vs. 1%). Premature discontinuation from clinical trials occurred in 11.8% of patients in the dronedarone groups compared to 7.7% of patients treated with placebo. Gastrointestinal disorders were cited as the reason for study discontinuation in 3.2% of patients compared to 1.8% for placebo. In a trial comparing the safety and efficacy of amiodarone to dronedarone, the overall rate of gastrointestinal adverse events was more common in the dronaderone group (12.9% in dronedarone vs. 5.1% in amiodarone). While the rate of nausea and vomiting was comparable between the dronedarone and amiodarone groups (6% and 4.3%, respectively), diarrhea was reported in 9.2% of patients in the dronedarone group compared to 3.1% of patients in the amiodarone group. The rate of gastrointestinal adverse events contributing to premature study drug discontinuation was 4% in the dronedarone group and 2% in the amiodarone group.
 
Cardiovascular effects of dronedarone are difficult to differentiate from extensions of its normal pharmacologic activity. In the outcomes trial ATHENA, bradycardia was reported in 3.5% of patients in the dronedarone group compared to 1.2% of patients taking placebo (p 450 milliseconds for males and > 470 milliseconds for females, occurred in 28% of patients receiving dronedarone in clinical trials compared to 19% of those receiving placebo. One patient in the ATHENA trial developed torsade de pointes (TdP) while receiving dronedarone. Combined data from EURIDIS and ADONIS show that when compared to placebo, dronedarone prolonged the QTc interval by 9 msec (p < 0.001), with no significant effects on QRS duration. Premature discontinuation occurred in 11.8% of patients in the dronedarone groups compared to 7.7% of patients treated with placebo. QT prolongation was cited as the reason for study discontinuation for 1.5% of patients receiving dronedarone compared to 0.5% for placebo. In a trial comparing the safety and efficacy of amiodarone and dronedarone, QT prolongation was not reported in the dronedarone group, but occurred in 1.2% of patients in the amiodarone group; no cases of TdP were reported.
 
Dronedarone is associated with worsening heart failure and death in patients with NYHA Class IV heart failure or NYHA Class II—III heart failure with a recent decompensation requiring hospitalization or referral to a specialized heart failure clinic. Interim safety analysis from ANDROMEDA, a phase III placebo-controlled, double-blind study of dronedarone (400 mg twice daily) or matching placebo in high-risk patients with symptomatic heart failure and severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction, revealed an excess risk of death in the dronedarone group after a median follow-up of 63 days. Of the 627 patients enrolled (target was 1000), there were 12 deaths (3.8%) in the placebo group and 25 deaths (8.1%) in the dronedarone group (HR 2.13; 95% CI 1.07—4.25; p = 0.027). The excess in mortality was predominately due to worsening heart failure (10 in the dronedarone group compared to 2 in the placebo group). There was also an excess in hospitalizations for other cardiovascular reasons seen in the dronedarone group compared to placebo (71 vs. 51). If patients experience new onset or worsening in the symptoms of heart failure during dronedarone treatment, discontinuation or suspension of the drug should be considered.
 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue reactions were reported during clinical trials for dronedarone. Compared to placebo, the following reactions were reported: maculopapular rash (5% vs. 3%), pruritus (5% vs. 3%), eczema (5% vs. 3%), and atopic dermatitis (5% vs. 3%). Photosensitivity was reported in < 1% of patients treated with dronedarone in placebo-controlled trials. In the comparative trial with amiodarone, photosensitivity reactions occurred in 0.8% of patients in the dronedarone group and 1.6% of patients in the amiodarone group.
 
Adverse reactions involving the thyroid can occur with amiodarone therapy (see Amiodarone Monograph). In a comparative trial of dronedarone and amiodarone, hypothyroidism was reported in 7 (2.7%) of patients in the amiodarone group compared to 2 (0.8%) in the dronedarone group. Hyperthyroidism was reported in 3 (1.2%) of patients in the amiodarone group compared to no patients in the dronedarone group. In addition, abnormal thyroid function tests requiring medical intervention were noted in 5 (2%) of patients in the amiodarone group compared to no patients in the dronedarone group. The results showed an 84.2% relative risk reduction in the rate of thyroid specific events (p = 0.0006) for dronedarone compared to amiodarone.
 
In clinical trials for dronedarone, asthenia was reported in 7% compared to 5% for placebo.
 
Dysgeusia was reported in < 1% of patients treated with dronedarone.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    In placebo-controlled clinical trials for dronedarone, gastrointestinal adverse effects were the most common reason for discontinuation. The most common gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported, compared to placebo, were diarrhea (9% vs. 6%), nausea (5% vs. 3%), vomiting (2% vs. 1%), abdominal pain (4% vs. 3%), and dyspepsia (2% vs. 1%). Premature discontinuation from clinical trials occurred in 11.8% of patients in the dronedarone groups compared to 7.7% of patients treated with placebo. Gastrointestinal disorders were cited as the reason for study discontinuation in 3.2% of patients compared to 1.8% for placebo. In a trial comparing the safety and efficacy of amiodarone to dronedarone, the overall rate of gastrointestinal adverse events was more common in the dronedarone group (12.9% in dronedarone vs. 5.1% in amiodarone). While the rate of nausea and vomiting was comparable between the dronedarone and amiodarone groups (6% and 4.3%, respectively), diarrhea was reported in 9.2% of patients in the dronedarone group compared to 3.1% of patients in the amiodarone group. The rate of gastrointestinal adverse events contributing to premature study drug discontinuation was 4% in the dronedarone group and 2% in the amiodarone group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    bradycardia
    General Information
    Cardiovascular effects of dronedarone are difficult to differentiate from extensions of its normal pharmacologic activity. When data from 5 placebo controlled trials was combined, bradycardia was reported in 3% of patients who received dronedarone compared to 1% of those who received placebo. In the outcomes trial ATHENA, bradycardia was reported in 3.5% of patients in the dronedarone group compared to 1.2% of patients taking placebo (p < 0.001). In combined data from EURIDIS and ADONIS, bradycardia was reported in 2.7% of patients in the dronedarone group compared to 2% in the placebo group (p = 0.56); baseline heart rate was reduced in the dronedarone group by 6.8% (p < 0.001).Additionally, bradycardia was reported more frequently in patients receiving dronedarone in combination with a beta-blocker. In a trial comparing the safety and efficacy of amiodarone to dronedarone, bradycardia was reported in 2% of patients in the dronedarone group and in 6.3% of patients in the amiodarone group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation, torsade de pointes
    General Information
    QT prolongation occurred in 28% of patients receiving dronedarone during clinical trials compared to 19% of those receiving placebo. Discontinue dronedarone therapy if the QTc interval is more than 500 milliseconds or the PR interval is more than 280 milliseconds. One patient in the ATHENA trial developed torsade de pointes (TdP) while receiving dronedarone. Combined data from EURIDIS and ADONIS show that when compared to placebo, dronedarone prolonged the QTc interval by 9 milliseconds, with no significant effects on QRS duration. Premature discontinuation occurred in 11.8% of patients in the dronedarone groups compared to 7.7% of patients treated with placebo. QT prolongation was cited as the reason for study discontinuation for 1.5% of patients receiving dronedarone compared to 0.5% for placebo. In a trial comparing the safety and efficacy of amiodarone and dronedarone, QT prolongation was not reported in the dronedarone group, but occurred in 1.2% of patients in the amiodarone group; no cases of TdP were reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      torsade de pointes
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, atrial flutter, heart failure, stroke
    General Information
    Dronedarone is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular death (largely arrhythmic) and heart failure events in some patients. Atrial flutter with 1:1 atrioventricular conduction has been reported very rarely during postmarketing use. Monitor cardiac rhythm no less frequently than every 3 months in patients receiving dronedarone. Use of dronedarone in patients with NYHA Class IV heart failure, symptomatic heart failure with a recent decompensation requiring hospitalization, or permanent atrial fibrillation doubles the risk of death. Cardiovert patients in atrial fibrillation, if clinically indicated, or discontinue dronedarone. In a placebo controlled trial in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation, increased rates of heart failure were observed in patients with normal left ventricular (LV) function and no history of symptomatic heart failure, in addition to those with a history of heart failure or LV dysfunction. Instruct patients to contact their prescriber immediately if they experience any signs or symptoms of arrhythmia exacerbation or heart failure, such as weight gain, edema, and dyspnea. If patients experience new onset or worsening in the symptoms of heart failure during dronedarone treatment, discontinuation or suspension of the drug should be considered. Data from the PALLAS trial indicates use of dronedarone (400 mg twice daily) in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation is associated with increases in heart failure hospitalization, as well as increases in stroke and death when compared to patients receiving placebo. Of the 1619 patients who received dronedarone during the PALLAS trial, the incidence of serious adverse events compared to placebo (n = 1617) were: heart failure hospitalization (43 (2.7%) vs. 24 (1.5%); HR 1.8. CI 1.10—2.99), stroke, particularly in first 2 weeks of therapy (23 (1.4%) vs. 10 (0.6%); HR 2.32; CI 1.11—4.88), and death, mainly arrhythmic/sudden death (25 (1.5%) vs. 13 (0.8%); HR 1.94; CI 0.99—3.79) Interim safety analysis from ANDROMEDA, a phase III placebo-controlled, double-blind study of dronedarone (400 mg twice daily) or matching placebo in high-risk patients with symptomatic heart failure and severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction, revealed an excess risk of death in the dronedarone group after a median follow-up of 63 days. Of the 627 patients enrolled (target was 1000), there were 12 deaths (3.8%) in the placebo group and 25 deaths (8.1%) in the dronedarone group (HR 2.13; 95% CI 1.07—4.25; p = 0.027). The excess in mortality was predominately due to worsening heart failure (10 in the dronedarone group compared to 2 in the placebo group). There was also an excess in hospitalizations for other cardiovascular reasons seen in the dronedarone group compared to placebo (71 vs. 51).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      atrial flutter
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash (unspecified)
    General Information
    Skin and subcutaneous tissue reactions were reported during clinical trials for dronedarone. These reactions, which included rash (unspecified), macular rash, maculopapular rash, erythematous rash, pruritus, eczema, allergic dermatitis, and dermatitis, were reported in 5% of dronedarone recipients compared to 3% of patients in the placebo group. Additionally, photosensitivity was reported in < 1% of patients treated with dronedarone in placebo-controlled trials. In the comparative trial with amiodarone, photosensitivity reactions occurred in 0.8% of patients in the dronedarone group and 1.6% of patients in the amiodarone group.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypothyroidism
    General Information
    Adverse reactions involving the thyroid can occur with amiodarone therapy. In a comparative trial of dronedarone and amiodarone, hypothyroidism was reported in 7 (2.7%) of patients in the amiodarone group compared to 2 (0.8%) in the dronedarone group. Hyperthyroidism was reported in 3 (1.2%) of patients in the amiodarone group compared to no patients in the dronedarone group. In addition, abnormal thyroid function tests requiring medical intervention were noted in 5 (2%) of patients in the amiodarone group compared to no patients in the dronedarone group. The results showed an 84.2% relative risk reduction in the rate of thyroid specific events (p = 0.0006) for dronedarone compared to amiodarone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypothyroidism
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia
    General Information
    In clinical trials, asthenia was reported in 7% of patients who received dronedarone compared to 5% of those who received placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dysgeusia
    General Information
    Dysgeusia was reported in < 1% of patients treated with dronedarone in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    coagulopathy, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, weakness
    General Information
    Cases of hepatocellular liver injury and acute hepatic failure requiring transplantation have been reported in patients treated with dronedarone. Although it is not known whether monitoring of hepatic serum enzymes will prevent the development of severe hepatic injury, health care providers are advised to consider obtaining periodic hepatic serum enzymes in patients treated with dronedarone especially during the first 6 months of treatment. Advise patients to report any signs or symptoms of hepatic injury immediately (e.g., anorexia, nausea, vomiting, fever, malaise, fatigue, right upper quadrant pain, jaundice, dark urine, itching). Discontinue dronedarone immediately if hepatic injury is suspected and obtain serum liver enzymes and bilirubin concentrations. Dronedarone should not be restarted in patients who experience hepatic injury during treatment without another explanation for the injury. Two cases of acute hepatic failure requiring transplantation occurred in patients with previously normal hepatic serum enzymes. In both cases, the patients were female and approximately 70 years of age and hepatic failure occurred within 6 months of therapy. In the first case, the patient presented with jaundice, coagulopathy, transaminitis (elevated hepatic enzymes), and hyperbilirubinemia, which progressed to hepatic encephalopathy. In the second case, the patient presented with weakness, abdominal pain, coagulopathy, transaminitis, and hyperbilirubinemia. In both cases, alternative etiology for liver failure was not identified and extensive hepatic necrosis was seen in the explanted liver.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic encephalopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      coagulopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis
    General Information
    Use of dronedarone during the post-marketing period has been associated with cases of interstitial pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis. Carefully evaluate patients who present with dyspnea or non-productive cough as the onset of these symptoms may be related to pulmonary toxicity. Discontinue dronedarone if pulmonary toxicity is confirmed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia
    General Information
    Electrolyte abnormalities, including hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia, have developed after concurrent administration of dronedarone with potassium-depleting diuretics. The manufacturer recommends monitoring to ensure potassium concentrations are within normal range prior to initiation and during dronedarone therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema
    General Information
    Use of dronedarone during the post-marketing period has been associated with anaphylactoid reactions, including angioedema. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    vasculitis
    General Information
    Use of dronedarone during the post-marketing period has been associated with cases of vasculitis, including leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Due to the voluntary nature of post-marketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vasculitis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    azotemia, renal failure (unspecified)
    General Information
    Monitor renal function periodically in patients taking dronedarone. Dronedarone has been associated with reports of marked increase in serum creatinine, pre-renal azotemia, and acute renal failure (unspecified), often in the setting of heart failure or hypovolemia. These effects appear to be reversible upon drug discontinuation and with appropriate medical treatment in most cases. In addition, a reversible small increase in serum creatinine concentration of approximately 0.1 mg/dl can occur after initiation of dronedarone therapy. This increase occurs rapidly and plateaus by day 7 of dronedarone treatment and has been shown to be a result of inhibition of the tubular secretion of creatinine. In clinical trials of dronedarone, an increase in serum creatinine concentration of >= 10% was seen in 51% of patients receiving dronedarone compared to 21% of those receiving placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      azotemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Dronedarone is an antiarrhythmic agent developed to have similar efficacy to amiodarone with an improved safety and tolerability profile. However, dronedarone carries a boxed warning contraindicating its use in patients with NYHA Class IV heart failure, patients with symptomatic heart failure with recent decompensation, and in patients in atrial fibrillation who cannot be cardioverted into normal sinus rhythm; dronedarone use doubles mortality risk and/or serious adverse events in these populations. In an unpublished trial comparing dronedarone to amiodarone, amiodarone had greater control of cardiac rhythm than dronedarone. Data from this trial also indicate that dronedarone therapy results in a greater incidence of diarrhea while amiodarone therapy results in a higher incidence of thyroid dysfunction, significant bradycardia, and more pronounced QTc interval prolongation. Unlike other dronedarone trials , the ANDROMEDA trial enrolled high-risk patients with symptomatic heart failure and severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Interim safety analysis revealed an excess risk of death in the dronedarone group compared to placebo. The increased mortality was predominately due to worsening heart failure. Because of structural modifications made to dronedarone (removal of iodine moiety and addition of methane-sulfonamyl group), dronedarone has decreased lipophilicity, resulting in a shorter half-life (13—19 hours compared to 58 days for amiodarone), and lower tissue accumulation compared to amiodarone. These characteristics of the dronedarone molecule are postulated to account for the improved safety profile seen with dronedarone; however, trials lasting longer than 12 months have not been conducted. Dronedarone is indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for atrial fibrillation in patients in sinus rhythm with a history of paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation. It should not be used in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation as this use is associated with an increased risk of death, stroke, and heart failure. Dronedarone (Multaq) was approved by the FDA in July 2009.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Dronedarone is a benzofuran derivative of amiodarone. The exact mechanism of action of dronedarone is unknown. Similar to amiodarone, dronedarone has a complex electrophysical profile and possesses antiarrhythmic properties belonging to all four Vaughan-Williams classes. Like Class III antiarrhythmics, dronedarone lengthens cardiac action potential and refractory periods by inhibiting the potassium currents IKr, IKl, IKACh, and Isus. Dronedarone also inhibits sodium channels, thereby decreasing the slope of the depolarization phase of the action potential, a Class Ib property, and also inhibits the slow L-type calcium channels, a class IV property. Furthermore, dronedarone also possesses antiadrenergic properties, which is a Class II property. In healthy subjects, dronedarone was found to significantly prolong the RR and QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
 
Structural modifications made to the dronedarone molecule include the removal of the iodine moiety and the addition of a methane-sulfonamyl group. These modifications result in a molecule with decreased lipophilicity, resulting in a shorter half-life, and lower tissue accumulation. Specifically, removal of the iodine moiety allows for a reduced risk of thyroid function abnormalities known to occur with amiodarone therapy. Animal studies indicate dronedarone does not affect circulating plasma thyroid hormones.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Due to first pass metabolism, the bioavailability of dronedarone is approximately 4%. When administered with a high fat meal, the bioavailability increases to 15%. The peak plasma concentration of dronedarone and its main active metabolite, N-debutyl metabolite, are reached within 3 to 6 hours. The steady state concentration is reached within 4 to 8 days of repeated oral administration of 400 mg twice daily. A 2-fold increase in dose results in an approximate 2.5- to 3-fold increase in Cmax and AUC. Similar pharmacokinetic properties are seen with the main active metabolite.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    For patients with moderate hepatic impairment, the mean dronedarone exposure increased 30% and the exposure of the active metabolite decreased by 50% compared to healthy subjects. Dronedarone was not studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No differences in pharmacokinetic parameters were seen in patients with mild to severe renal impairment compared to those with normal renal function.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Patients 65 years and older have a dronedarone exposure approximately 23% higher than those younger than 65 years.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The exposure of dronedarone is approximately 30% higher in females compared to males.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic studies evaluating race were not formally conducted; however, based on cross-study comparison, Japanese males have an approximate 2-fold higher exposure to dronedarone than White males. Dronedarone pharmacokinetics in other races have not been assessed.
  Text
  Dronedarone is administered orally. Dronedarone and its N-debutyl metabolite are highly bound to plasma proteins (more than 98%), mainly albumin. This protein binding is not saturable. Dronedarone is extensively metabolized, mainly by CYP3A isoenzymes. The initial pathway includes N-debutylation to form the active N-debutyl metabolite, oxidative deamination to form the inactive propanoic acid metabolite, and direct oxidation. Monoamine oxidases partially contribute to the metabolism of the active metabolite. About 6% of radiolabeled dronedarone is excreted in urine and 84% is excreted in feces, mainly as metabolites. The elimination half-life is 13 to 19 hours.
Dronedarone possesses electrophysiological properties of all four Vaughan-Williams classes. Concentration-dependent increases in QTcF and PR were observed in healthy volunteers receiving repeated oral doses of up to 1,600 mg twice daily for 10 days.The estimated increases for a standard dose (400 mg twice daily with food) are 15 and 12 milliseconds, respectively.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, CYP2D6, P-gp
Dronedarone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6 and an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) transport. It is also a substrate of CYP3A.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer twice daily with the morning and evening meals.
The appropriate MedGuide should be dispensed with each prescription and refill.
If a dose is missed, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular scheduled time. Do not take 2 doses at the same time to make up for the missed dose.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    800 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    800 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild to moderate impairment: Dosage adjustments are not needed; in moderate impairment, limited data are available.
Severe impairment: Use is contraindicated.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
