=== Acetylcysteine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 7)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetylcysteine is a mucolytic indicated for acute or chronic bronchopulmonary disease, pulmonary complications of cystic fibrosis or surgery, post-traumatic chest conditions, atelectasis due to mucous obstruction, diagnostic bronchial studies, tracheostomy care, and during anesthesia as adjuvant...

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC), inhalation, oral; Common adult doses: weighing 41 kg or more: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose (Max: 14 g/dose) PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose (Max: 7 g/dose) PO; 300 mg/kg IV as either 2 sequential doses (200 mg/kg/dose [Max: 20 g/dose], 100 mg/kg/dose [Max: 10 g/dose]) or 3...

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, erythema, flushing, hypotension, pruritus, rash, urticaria, bronchospasm, dyspnea, hemoptysis, pharyngitis, rhinorrhea, wheezing, dysgeusia

In an Overdose: Although serious hypersensitivity reactions are most commonly associated with the intravenous formulation, hypersensitivity reactions (generalized urticaria, angioedema, pruritus, flushing, rash, chest tightness, hypotension) have been... Acetylcysteine is a mucolytic indicated for acute or chronic bronchopulmonary disease, pulmonary complications of cystic fibrosis or surgery, post-traumatic chest conditions, atelectasis due to mucous...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use intravenous and nebulized acetylcysteine with caution in patients with asthma because both formulations can result in acute bronchospasm.

ACETYLCYSTEINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Acetadote, CETYLEV, Mucomyst, Mucosil Acetylcysteine , NAC Vegeterian

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of acetaminophen overdose to prevent or lessen hepatic injury after ingestion of a potentially hepatotoxic quantity of acetaminophen

Intravenous dosage (3-Bag regimen)
Adults


150 mg/kg/dose (Max: 15 g/dose) IV over 1 hour as Bag 1, then 50 mg/kg/dose (Max: 5 g/dose) IV over 4 hours as Bag 2, then 100 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 g/dose) IV over 16 hours as Bag 3. Increase the third dose to 200 mg/kg/dose for massive ingestion (e.g., acetaminophen concentration more than 300 mg/L at 4-hour nomogram line).


Infants, Children, and Adolescents weighing 5 kg or more


150 mg/kg/dose (Max: 15 g/dose) IV over 1 hour as Bag 1, then 50 mg/kg/dose (Max: 5 g/dose) IV over 4 hours as Bag 2, then 100 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 g/dose) IV over 16 hours as Bag 3. Increase the third dose to 200 mg/kg/dose for massive ingestion (e.g., acetaminophen concentration more than 300 mg/L at 4-hour nomogram line).


Intravenous dosage (2-Bag regimen)
Adults weighing 41 kg or more


200 mg/kg/dose (Max: 20 g/dose) IV over 4 hours as Bag 1, then 100 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 g/dose) IV over 16 hours as Bag 2. Increase the second dose to 200 mg/kg/dose for massive ingestion (e.g., acetaminophen concentration more than 300 mg/L at 4-hour nomogram line).


Children and Adolescents weighing 41 kg or more


200 mg/kg/dose (Max: 20 g/dose) IV over 4 hours as Bag 1, then 100 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 g/dose) IV over 16 hours as Bag 2. Increase the second dose to 200 mg/kg/dose for massive ingestion (e.g., acetaminophen concentration more than 300 mg/L at 4-hour nomogram line).


Intravenous dosage (Scottish and Newcastle Anti-emetic Pre-treatment for Paracetamol Poisoning [SNAP] 2-Bag, 12-hour regimen)†
Adults


100 mg/kg/dose (Max: 10 g/dose) IV over 2 hours, followed by 200 mg/kg/dose (Max: 20 g/dose) IV over 10 hours. Repeat the second dose for massive ingestion (e.g., acetaminophen concentration more than 300 mg/L at 4-hour nomogram line).


Intravenous dosage (1-Bag regimen)†
Adults


150 mg/kg/dose (Max: 15 g/dose) IV over 1 hour, then 12.5 mg/kg/hour (Max: 1.25 g/hour) continuous IV infusion for 20 hours.


Oral dosage (oral solution)
Adults


140 mg/kg/dose (Max: 14 g/dose) PO loading dose, followed by 70 mg/kg/dose (Max: 7 g/dose) PO every 4 hours for 17 doses starting 4 hours after the loading dose. Repeat any dose vomited within 1 hour of administration. In individuals with massive ingestion, concomitant ingestion of other substances, or preexisting hepatic disease, treatment beyond the 17 maintenance doses could be needed as the absorption and half-life of acetaminophen may be prolonged in these individuals.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


140 mg/kg/dose (Max: 14 g/dose) PO loading dose, followed by 70 mg/kg/dose (Max: 7 g/dose) PO every 4 hours for 17 doses starting 4 hours after the loading dose. Repeat any dose vomited within 1 hour of administration. In individuals with massive ingestion, concomitant ingestion of other substances, or preexisting hepatic disease, treatment beyond the 17 maintenance doses could be needed as the absorption and half-life of acetaminophen may be prolonged in these individuals.


Neonates weighing 1 kg or more


140 mg/kg/dose PO loading dose, followed by 70 mg/kg/dose PO every 4 hours for 17 doses starting 4 hours after the loading dose. Repeat any dose vomited within 1 hour of administration. In individuals with massive ingestion, concomitant ingestion of other substances, or preexisting hepatic disease, treatment beyond the 17 maintenance doses could be needed as the absorption and half-life of acetaminophen may be prolonged in these individuals.


Oral dosage (nebulizer solution)
Adults


140 mg/kg/dose (Max: 14 g/dose) PO loading dose, followed by 70 mg/kg/dose (Max: 7 g/dose) PO every 4 hours for 17 doses starting 4 hours after the loading dose. Repeat any dose vomited within 1 hour of administration.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


140 mg/kg/dose (Max: 14 g/dose) PO loading dose, followed by 70 mg/kg/dose (Max: 7 g/dose) PO every 4 hours for 17 doses starting 4 hours after the loading dose. Repeat any dose vomited within 1 hour of administration.


For the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema), tuberculosis, bronchiectasis, and primary amyloidosis of the lung as an adjunct

Respiratory (Inhalation) dosage (inhalation solution)
Adults


600 to 1,000 mg inhaled by nebulizer 3 to 4 times daily, initially. Adjust dose based on clinical response and tolerability. Dose range: 200 to 2,000 mg inhaled by nebulizer every 2 to 6 hours. Higher doses are needed when nebulized into a tent or Croupette.


Endotracheal dosage
Adults


100 to 400 mg endotracheally every 1 to 4 hours as needed.


Oral dosage†
Adults


400 to 1,800 mg/day PO in 1 to 3 divided doses.


For mucolysis of viscous or inspissated mucous secretions in patients with pulmonary conditions (e.g., pneumonia, bronchitis, cystic fibrosis, atelectasis due to mucous obstruction, and post-traumatic chest conditions) and for use during tracheostomy care, anaesthesia, and diagnostic bronchograms

Nebulization dosage (using face mask, mouth piece, or tracheostomy)
Adults


3 to 5 mL of 20% solution or 6 to 10 mL of 10% solution, administered via nebulization 3 to 4 times daily is the recommended dosage for most patients; however, the dosage range is 1 to 10 mL of 20% solution or 2 to 20 mL of 10% solution administered every 2 to 6 hours. Administration of a bronchodilator 10 to 15 minutes prior to dose may reduce the incidence of bronchospasm.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


3 to 5 mL of 20% solution or 6 to 10 mL of 10% solution, administered via nebulization 3 to 4 times daily is the recommended dosage for most patients; however, the dosage range is 1 to 10 mL of 20% solution or 2 to 20 mL of 10% solution administered every 2 to 6 hours. Dosages at the lower end of the range (e.g., 1 to 2 mL of 20% or 2 to 4 mL of 10%) may be most appropriate for infants. Administration of a bronchodilator 10 to 15 minutes prior to dose may reduce the incidence of bronchospasm.


Nebulization dosage (using tent or croupette)
Infants and Children


Specific dosage is dependent on the available equipment and patient need. Use a sufficient volume of 10% or 20% solution to provide a heavy mist for the desired period of time. Very large volumes (e.g., up to 300 mL) may be required. Intermittent or continuous administration for prolonged periods (e.g., overnight) may be desirable.


Direct intratracheal instillation dosage (general dosage)
Adults


1 to 2 mL of 10% or 20% solution administered by direct instillation into the trachea as often as every hour is the general dosing for direct instillation.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


1 to 2 mL of 10% or 20% solution administered by direct instillation into the trachea as often as every hour is the general dosing for direct instillation.


Direct intratracheal instillation dosage (for tracheostomy care)
Adults


1 to 2 mL of 10% or 20% solution directly into the tracheostomy every 1 to 4 hours for routine tracheostomy care. For instillation through percutaneous intratracheal catheter, 1 to 2 mL of 20% solution or 2 to 4 mL of 10% solution every 1 to 4 hours may be given by a syringe attached to the catheter.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


1 to 2 mL of 10% or 20% solution directly into the tracheostomy every 1 to 4 hours for routine tracheostomy care. For instillation through percutaneous intratracheal catheter, 1 to 2 mL of 20% solution or 2 to 4 mL of 10% solution every 1 to 4 hours may be given by a syringe attached to the catheter.


Direct intratracheal instillation dosage (for introduction into a specific bronchopulmonary tree segment)
Adults


2 to 5 mL of 20% solution administered via a syringe connected to a small catheter that has been placed directly into the desired segment of the bronchopulmonary tree (under local anesthesia and direct vision).


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


2 to 5 mL of 20% solution administered via a syringe connected to a small catheter that has been placed directly into the desired segment of the bronchopulmonary tree (under local anesthesia and direct vision).


Endotracheal or Nebulization dosage (for diagnostic bronchial studies)
Adults


1 to 2 mL of 20% solution or 2 to 4 mL of 10% solution administered 2 to 3 times prior to the procedure via nebulization or by intratracheal instillation.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


1 to 2 mL of 20% solution or 2 to 4 mL of 10% solution administered 2 to 3 times prior to the procedure via nebulization or by intratracheal instillation.


For nephrotoxicity prophylaxis† against radiographic-contrast-induced reductions in renal function in those patients with preexisting renal insufficiency or who are otherwise at risk for radiocontrast-induced nephropathy

Oral dosage
Adults


600 mg PO twice daily, given the day prior to and the day of administration of the contrast agent (i.e., for 2 days total) has been successful in reducing the risk for radiocontrast-induced nephropathy. Higher doses (1,200 mg PO twice daily) in conjunction with IV acetylcysteine (1,200 mg IV bolus) have also been used to reduce the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with acute myocardial infarction undergoing angioplasty.


Intravenous dosage
Adults


150 mg/kg/dose in 500 mL 0.9% Sodium Chloride IV over 30 minutes immediately before contrast, followed by 50 mg/kg/dose in 500 mL 0.9% Sodium Chloride IV over the next 4 hours has been studied in patients with stable renal dysfunction (CrCl less than 50 mL/minute or serum creatinine (SCr) more than 1.36 mg/dL) undergoing cardiac catheterization in addition to usual IV hydration. In this rapid protocol comparing IV acetylcysteine (n = 41) to IV hydration alone (n = 39), 5% of patients in the IV acetylcysteine group compared to 21% of patients in the hydration group developed radiocontrast-induced nephropathy (increase in SCr of 25% at 2 or 4 days after contrast administration; p = 0.045; RR, 0.28; 95% CI, 0.08 to 0.98). In another study in 354 patients with acute myocardial infarction undergoing angioplasty, a dose of 1,200 mg IV bolus before angioplasty followed by 1,200 mg PO twice daily for the 48 hours following angioplasty significantly reduced the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy (defined as a 25% increase in creatinine over baseline within 72 hours after angioplasty) compared to a lower dose of acetylcysteine (600 mg IV bolus prior to angioplasty followed by 600 mg PO twice daily for 48 hours after angioplasty) or placebo. The incidence of acute renal failure was 8% in the high-dose acetylcysteine group, 15% in the low-dose acetylcysteine group, and 33% in patients receiving placebo (p less than 0.001). Furthermore, the incidence of death, acute renal failure requiring temporary renal replacement therapy, and the need for mechanical ventilation was also reduced vs. placebo. Patients also received 0.9% Sodium Chloride hydration at a rate of 1 mL/kg/hour for 12 hours after angioplasty; if the patients had overt heart failure, a lower rate of 0.5 mL/kg/hour for 12 hours was used.


For the treatment of distal intestinal obstruction syndrome (DIOS)† (previously called meconium ileus equivalent)

Oral dosage
Children and Adolescents 10 to 17 years


Limited data are available; the ideal dosage has not been established. For the acute treatment of moderate DIOS episodes, some experts recommend a "Mucomyst cocktail", which consists of a phosphosoda enema followed by a clear liquid diet for 24 hours. During that 24-hour period, give 3 doses of 10% acetylcysteine 60 mL PO mixed with cold soda or orange juice. For recurrent DIOS, 10 mL of the 20% solution PO 4 times per day in combination with acetylcysteine enemas has also been used; most patients experienced some relief within 24 hours. For recurrent DIOS refractory to other therapies, 5 to 30 mL of the 10% solution PO 1 to 3 times daily may be used.


Children 1 to 9 years


Limited data are available; the ideal dosage has not been established. For the acute treatment of moderate DIOS episodes, some experts recommend a "Mucomyst cocktail", which consists of a phosphosoda enema followed by a clear liquid diet for 24 hours. During that 24-hour period, give 3 doses of 10% acetylcysteine 30 mL PO mixed with 30 mL of cold soda or orange juice. For recurrent DIOS, 10 mL of the 20% solution PO 4 times per day in combination with acetylcysteine enemas has also been used; most patients experienced some relief within 24 hours. For recurrent DIOS refractory to other therapies, 5 to 30 mL of the 10% solution PO 1 to 3 times daily may be used.


Rectal dosage
Adolescents


Limited data are available; some experts consider rectal enemas of acetylcysteine to be ineffective. One study used 50 mL of the 20% solution mixed with 50 mL of water as an enema administered 1 to 4 times per day in combination with oral therapy.


For the treatment of excoriation disorder†

Oral dosage
Adults


450 to 600 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose every 3 to 5 days based on clinical response. Max: 3,000 mg/day in 1 to 3 divided doses.


Children and Adolescents 5 to 17 years


450 to 600 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose every 3 to 5 days based on clinical response. Max: 1,200 mg/day in 1 to 3 divided doses.


For the treatment of severe alcohol-associated hepatitis† as an adjunct to corticosteroids

Intravenous dosage
Adults


150 mg/kg/dose IV over 30 minutes, then 50 mg/kg/dose IV over 4 hours, and then 100 mg/kg/dose IV over 16 hours on Day 1, followed by 100 mg/kg/dose IV once daily on Days 2 to 5.


For the treatment of hepatic failure due to yellow fever†

Intravenous dosage
Adults


150 mg/kg/dose IV over 1 hour as Bag 1, then 50 mg/kg/dose IV over 4 hours as Bag 2, then 100 mg/kg/dose IV over 16 hours as Bag 3 is suggested by the World Health Organization (WHO) for patients with hepatic failure due to probable or confirmed yellow fever.


Infants, Children, and Adolescents


150 mg/kg/dose IV over 1 hour as Bag 1, then 50 mg/kg/dose IV over 4 hours as Bag 2, then 100 mg/kg/dose IV over 16 hours as Bag 3 is suggested by the World Health Organization (WHO) for patients with hepatic failure due to probable or confirmed yellow fever.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

asthma, impaired cough reflex


Use intravenous and nebulized acetylcysteine with caution in patients with asthma because both formulations can result in acute bronchospasm. To minimize the risk of bronchospasm, use inhaled acetylcysteine with or after the administration of a nebulized bronchodilator. Nebulized acetylcysteine should also be used with caution in patients with an impaired cough reflex. When administered into the respiratory tract, either via inhalation or direct administration into a tracheostomy tube, acetylcysteine liquefies pulmonary secretions, and the increased volume produced can occlude the airway if the patient is unable to adequately clear the secretions. If the patient's cough is not adequate to keep the airway open, mechanical suction or endotracheal aspiration may be necessary. Monitor all patients with any respiratory conditions carefully while they are receiving acetylcysteine.


pregnancy


Available data from published case reports and case series over several decades have not identified an increased risk of major birth defects, miscarriages, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes associated with the use of acetylcysteine. Additionally, animal data has shown no risk of teratogenic effects. Do not delay treatment of acetaminophen overdose with acetylcysteine due to pregnancy, as potentially toxic acetaminophen plasma concentrations may increase the risk of morbidity and mortality for both the fetus and pregnant person. Both acetaminophen and acetylcysteine cross the placenta.


esophageal varices, peptic ulcer disease


Oral administration of acetylcysteine can exacerbate vomiting that is associated with acute acetaminophen overdose. In patients at risk for GI bleeding, such as those with esophageal varices or peptic ulcer disease, vomiting may increase the risk of upper GI bleeding or esophageal tears; thus, caution is advised when administering oral acetylcysteine to these patients. The acetylcysteine nebulizer solution has an unpleasant odor and when undiluted, has irritating and sclerosing properties on the GI mucosa. Acetylcysteine must be diluted with a proper solution to mask the odor and limit GI irritation prior to oral administration.


breast-feeding


Nebulized acetylcysteine is considered compatible with breast-feeding, as there is minimal systemic absorption. Use intravenous and oral acetylcysteine with caution during breast-feeding. There is no information regarding the presence of acetylcysteine in human milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects on milk production. Consider the clinical need for treatment, as well as the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding and any potential adverse effects in the breast-fed child. To limit exposure, breast-feeding individuals may consider pumping and discarding their milk for 30 hours after systemic acetylcysteine administration.


fluid restriction


Use intravenous acetylcysteine cautiously in patients who require fluid restriction. Administration of intravenous acetylcysteine involves a significant amount of fluid, which could result in volume overload (hypervolemia) and potentially hyponatremia, seizures, and death. For patients requiring fluid restriction and those weighing less than 40 kg, use the recommended dilutions. Additionally, health care providers are advised that intravenous acetylcysteine contains approximately 30 mg/mL of sodium and will deliver between 225 mg and 4,500 mg of sodium per course of treatment (based on patient weight). If 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection is used as the diluent, an additional 1,770 mg of sodium will be added per liter of diluent. In patients for whom sodium load is a concern, consider diluting with 5% Dextrose Injection or Sterile Water for Injection. For specific treatment recommendations for patients requiring non-standard administration techniques, clinicians can contact Poison Control (1-800-222-1222) or a special health professional assistance line for acetaminophen overdose (1-800-525-6115).


Pregnancy And Lactation


Available data from published case reports and case series over several decades have not identified an increased risk of major birth defects, miscarriages, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes associated with the use of acetylcysteine. Additionally, animal data has shown no risk of teratogenic effects. Do not delay treatment of acetaminophen overdose with acetylcysteine due to pregnancy, as potentially toxic acetaminophen plasma concentrations may increase the risk of morbidity and mortality for both the fetus and pregnant person. Both acetaminophen and acetylcysteine cross the placenta.


Interactions

Charcoal: (Moderate) Administration of activated charcoal and oral acetylcysteine at the same time may cause a reduction in acetylcysteine (NAC) absorption. There are conflicting data as to whether the reduced bioavailability of NAC is clinically significant during the treatment of drug overdoses. In the case of a mixed drug overdose activated charcoal may be indicated for use along with NAC. However, if activated charcoal has been administered, lavage before administering oral NAC treatment. Activated charcoal adsorbs acetylcysteine in vitro and may do so in patients and thereby may reduce its effectiveness.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

The overall incidence of adverse reactions to intravenous acetylcysteine has been reported to be between 0.2% and 21%; adverse reactions most commonly occur during the loading dose infusion.

anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, erythema, flushing, hypotension, pruritus, rash, urticaria


Fatal and life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients who have received intravenous acetylcysteine. Signs and symptoms of anaphylactoid reactions may include rash, low blood pressure, and difficulty breathing. In a multi-center trial that included 4,709 adults and 1,905 pediatric patients, anaphylactoid reactions occurred in approximately 8% of adult patients and 10% of pediatric patients; anaphylaxis was reported in 0.1% of adults and 0.2% of pediatric patients, and hypotension occurred in 0.1% of adults and children. In adult trials, 17% of patients developed hypersensitivity reactions within the first 2 hours of administration; 14% of patients developed a hypersensitivity reaction when the loading dose was infused over 60 minutes compared to 18% when it was infused over 15 minutes. When deciding whether to initiate treatment with the 2-Bag or 3-Bag regimen, consider that the 2-Bag regimen delivers less drug over the first 3 hours and may be associated with fewer hypersensitivity reactions than the 3-Bag regimen. Published data from observational studies show the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions in patients who received the 2-Bag and 3-Bag regimens ranged from 1% to 19% and 7% to 23%, respectively. Acute flushing and erythema may also occur with IV acetylcysteine administration; these reactions typically occur 30 to 60 minutes after the initiation of the infusion and often resolve spontaneously despite continued acetylcysteine infusion. In addition, urticaria/facial flushing (6%, adults; 8%, children) and pruritus (4%, adults; 4%, children) have also been reported. If a reaction occurs that includes signs and symptoms more severe than simple flushing and erythema, treat it as an anaphylactoid reaction. Administer appropriate pharmacological therapy (e.g., antihistamines, epinephrine, etc.) and supportive care as needed. The acetylcysteine infusion may be interrupted until treatment for the reaction has been initiated and then carefully restarted once acute symptoms have resolved and the patient is stable. If the anaphylactoid reaction occurs again, the infusion should be discontinued and alternative treatment measures considered. Although serious hypersensitivity reactions are most commonly associated with the intravenous formulation, hypersensitivity reactions (generalized urticaria, angioedema, pruritus, flushing, rash, chest tightness, hypotension) have been observed in patients receiving oral acetylcysteine for acetaminophen overdose. If these or other allergic reactions occur, discontinue use of the drug unless treatment is considered essential and the allergic symptoms can be otherwise controlled. Acquired sensitization (dermal eruptions) has also been reported with nebulized acetylcysteine.


bronchospasm, dyspnea, hemoptysis, pharyngitis, rhinorrhea, stomatitis, wheezing


Respiratory symptoms (cough, wheezing, stridor, dyspnea, chest tightness, respiratory distress, or acute bronchospasm) occurred in approximately 2% of adult and pediatric patients in 1 clinical trial of intravenous acetylcysteine (n = 4,709 adults; 1,905 pediatric patients). Bronchospasm can also occur with orally administered acetylcysteine, although the incidence is infrequent. Nebulized acetylcysteine may irritate the airways of patients who are hypersensitive to acetylcysteine or in asthmatic patients. If patients are receiving inhaled beta-agonist treatments, it is often recommended that the beta-agonist be used prior to inhaled acetylcysteine administration to limit bronchospasm. If wheezing or dyspnea occurs during the administration of intravenous acetylcysteine, evaluate the patient carefully to determine whether the wheezing may be a symptom of an anaphylactoid reaction. Use all acetylcysteine formulations cautiously in patients with asthma or a history of bronchospasm. Other respiratory adverse events that have been reported with IV acetylcysteine use include pharyngitis, rhonchi, and throat tightness. Stomatitis has been reported by patients who used the oral/nebulized solution. Hemoptysis has occurred in patients receiving nebulized acetylcysteine; however, hemoptysis is not uncommon in patients with bronchopulmonary disease and a causal relationship has not been established. Rhinorrhea has been reported with both IV and inhaled/oral acetylcysteine.


dysgeusia, nausea, vomiting


All formulations of acetylcysteine have been associated with nausea and vomiting; however, the oral administration of acetylcysteine solution is particularly known for causing GI symptoms. Acetylcysteine solution for oral administration has a strong, unpleasant sulfuric odor and taste that increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, and dysgeusia. Some investigators have found that diluting the acetylcysteine with beverages such as Fresca or Coca-Cola reduces the offensiveness of the smell and taste, which may lead to a reduction in nausea and vomiting. Dysgeusia may also be limited during oral administration by using a drinking straw for the diluted solutions. Because acetaminophen toxicity is highly emetogenic, it is difficult to determine the incidence of nausea secondary to acetylcysteine in this setting.


edema, sinus tachycardia


In a trial of intravenous acetylcysteine in 4,709 adult patients and 1,905 pediatric patients, edema was reported in approximately 2% of adults and 1% of pediatric patients; monitor fluid status in all patients during administration. In an adult trial comparing IV loading dose infusion rates, 5% of patients who received the loading dose over 15 minutes and 3% of those who received the dose over 60 minutes experienced tachycardia (e.g., sinus tachycardia) within the first 2 hours after administration.


drowsiness, fever


Drowsiness, clamminess, and fever have been reported during use of acetylcysteine.


elevated hepatic enzymes


Elevated hepatic enzymes were reported in a case report involving a 3-year-old boy with cystic fibrosis receiving acetylcysteine for distal intestinal obstruction syndrome (meconium ileus equivalent). He was hospitalized on 2 different occasions and hepatic enzymes were within normal limits prior to admission, but were grossly elevated after acetylcysteine administration. During the first hospitalization the patient received acetylcysteine 4% solution, 50 mL every 6 hours (14 total doses) and acetylcysteine enemas 4% solution, 150 mL every 6 hours (13 total doses). Four days after beginning acetylcysteine, his laboratory values were: SGOT: 4,850 International Units/L, SGPT: 4,820 International Units/L, and alkaline phosphatase: 495 International Units/L. Acetylcysteine and cefaclor were discontinued and a week later the values were: SGOT: 143 International Units/L, SGPT: 965 International Units/L, and alkaline phosphatase: 867 International Units/L. When readmitted 2 months later for meconium ileus equivalent (distal intestinal obstruction syndrome or DIOS), acetylcysteine enemas were begun, 200 mL of 5% solution given every 4 to 6 hours (25 total doses). Theophylline and nebulized bronchodilators were the only other medications administered. Five days after admission, hepatic enzymes were again elevated and improved a week after acetylcysteine discontinuation. Four months later, his enzymes were further improved. The patient's liver biopsy was compatible with drug-induced injury, but also showed hepatobiliary lesions that occur with cystic fibrosis.


Description

Acetylcysteine is a mucolytic indicated for acute or chronic bronchopulmonary disease, pulmonary complications of cystic fibrosis or surgery, post-traumatic chest conditions, atelectasis due to mucous obstruction, diagnostic bronchial studies, tracheostomy care, and during anesthesia as adjuvant therapy as well as an antidote for acetaminophen overdose to prevent or lessen hepatic injury after ingestion of a potentially hepatotoxic quantity of acetaminophen due to acute ingestion or repeated supratherapeutic ingestion. In selected individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) not receiving inhaled corticosteroids, regular treatment with mucolytics such as acetylcysteine may reduce COPD exacerbation frequency and modestly improve health status. Oral administration of acetylcysteine has been noted to modestly reduce COPD exacerbation rates by roughly 30%, particularly during the winter months in those with severe disease. Prophylactic administration of acetylcysteine, along with hydration, appears to prevent nephrotoxicity due to radiographic contrast in high-risk individuals. Acetylcysteine was FDA-approved in 1963.

Mechanism Of Action

Acetylcysteine has several therapeutic uses. Although the precise mechanisms of action are not fully understood, many of the mechanisms are thought to involve the free sulfhydryl groups that the drug possesses.
 
Prevention of hepatotoxicity secondary to acetaminophen overdose
As an antidote, acetylcysteine is used to prevent hepatotoxicity after an acute overdose of acetaminophen. In this role, the sulfhydryl groups of acetylcysteine serve as a substrate for the toxic acetaminophen metabolite in place of glutathione in the liver. It is believed that acetaminophen is hepatotoxic due to the depletion of these glutathione residues. The effectiveness of acetylcysteine depends on early administration, with benefit observed primarily in patients treated within 16 hours of the overdose.
 
Mucolysis (pulmonary)
As a mucolytic, it is believed that the free sulfhydryl groups in acetylcysteine react with the disulfide linkages of mucoproteins in bronchial secretions. When the disulfide linkages that hold together the mucoprotein, DNA, and albumin molecules rupture, depolymerization occurs, which acts to decrease the viscosity of mucus secretions of the lungs. This aids in the removal of these secretions through coughing, mechanical mechanisms, or postural drainage.
 
Mucolysis (distal intestinal obstruction syndrome [DIOS])
Some patients with cystic fibrosis have tenacious intestinal mucus, abnormal intestinal mucoproteins, and pancreatic insufficiency, which can result in partial or complete bowel obstruction. Acetylcysteine reduces the viscosity by cleaving disulfide bonds in mucoprotein molecules. Additionally, acetylcysteine concentrations that are 4% or greater are hyperosmolar and draw fluid from the intestinal wall. Both proprieties contribute to its efficacy in clearing the bowel obstruction.
 
Antioxidant and cytoprotective effects
Antioxidants such as acetylcysteine may prevent tissue damage to various organs by scavenging oxygen free radicals or by other poorly understood mechanisms, such as stabilization of cellular signal transduction systems and reduced apoptosis (programmed cell death). Acetylcysteine is thought to enhance the effects of nitric oxide (NO) by combining with NO to form S-nitrosothiol, a potent and biologically stable vasodilator. Acetylcysteine may compete with the superoxide radical for NO and thus prevent the formation of a damaging perioxinitrite free-radical. During severe sepsis, intracellular glutathione, which is a powerful radical scavenger, is depleted. It has been proposed that acetylcysteine may act as a glutathione precursor and replenish depleted intracellular reduced glutathione concentrations, augmenting antioxidant defenses. Acetylcysteine has also been reported to enhance the activity of endothelium-derived-relaxing factor (EDRF) to improve microvascular blood flow, which may provide protection during endotoxin shock. Acetylcysteine exhibits multiple potential mechanisms of action that may limit ischemia and promote cellular repair and survival. Studies using acetylcysteine as an antioxidant for organ protection in settings of clinically-relevant heart, lung, liver, and renal ischemia continue to be pursued.
 
Proposed prevention of nitrate tolerance
Sulfhydryl groups are also believed to be important in the response to vasodilator nitrates used in the treatment of ischemic heart disease. It is well known that tolerance to nitrates occurs after prolonged use. One proposed mechanism, based on in vitro data, is the decreased conversion of nitrates to nitric oxide, possibly due to depletion of sulfhydryl cofactors. In vivo data do not completely support this sulfhydryl-depletion hypothesis. While supplementation with acetylcysteine does augment nitrate effects in vivo, the mechanism of intracellular sulfhydryl group repletion is inadequate in explaining the reversal of nitrate tolerance; an extracellular thiol/nitrate interaction appears to enhance vasodilation. Acetylcysteine inhibits angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) in vivo and acts as an antioxidant, two mechanisms that may preserve the function of nitroglycerin-derived nitric oxide (NO). These potential actions indicate that acetylcysteine may protect the neurohormonal or vasoconstrictive responses to nitrates, rather than act as a simple repeller of thiol stores.

Pharmacokinetics

Acetylcysteine is administered orally, intravenously, or by inhalation. The volume of distribution is 0.47 L/kg and the protein binding ranges from 66% to 87%. Any acetylcysteine that is absorbed systemically is deacetylated by the liver and intracellularly in most tissues to cysteine and disulfides. Cysteine is then further metabolized to glutathione, as well as other metabolites. Most of an acetylcysteine dose is expected to be metabolized and incorporated as cysteine into cellular pools. The mean terminal half-life is 5.6 hours for the intravenous solution and 3.3 hours for the oral solution. Renal clearance accounts for roughly 30% of total clearance. After 24 hours, 13% to 38% of a radioactive dose of S-acetylcysteine is excreted in the urine. No metabolites have been identified in the urine. Only about 3% of acetylcysteine is excreted in feces.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Acetylcysteine is rapidly absorbed with peak plasma concentrations reached approximately 2 hours (range, 0.5 to 3.5 hours) after oral administration; however, oral bioavailability is very low (approximately 9%).

Inhalation Route

After oral inhalation, the majority of the administered dose undergoes a sulfhydryl-disulfide reaction; only a small portion of the dose is absorbed from the pulmonary epithelium.

Other Route(s)

Intratracheal Route
After intratracheal instillation, the majority of the administered dose undergoes a sulfhydryl-disulfide reaction; only a small portion of the dose is absorbed from the pulmonary epithelium.

Hepatic Impairment

In patients with severe liver damage, the mean half-life increases by 80% while the mean clearance decreases by 30% compared to a control group. This study was conducted in 9 patients with cirrhosis to determine if the pharmacokinetics of acetylcysteine are altered by chronic liver disease. The mean AUC was significantly increased (152.34 mg/L x hour +/- 50.38) in cirrhotics compared with normal controls (93.86 mg/L x hour +/- 9.6). The clearance of acetylcysteine was significantly reduced in patients with chronic liver disease (4.52 L/hour +/- 1.87) compared with controls (6.47 L/hour +/- 0.78).

Administration

For storage information, see specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Liquid Formulations

Oral solution (Legubeti)
For patients weighing 60 kg or more, determine the appropriate number of 2.5 gram and/or 500 mg powder packets to dissolve in 300 mL of caffeine-free diet cola or other diet soft drink as follows:
100 kg or more: 15 gram loading dose (six 2.5 gram packets); 7.5 gram maintenance dose (three 2.5 gram packets)
90 to 99 kg: 14 gram loading dose (five 2.5 gram and three 500 mg packets); 7 gram maintenance dose (two 2.5 gram and four 500 mg packets)
80 to 89 kg: 13 gram loading dose (five 2.5 gram and one 500 mg packets); 6.5 gram maintenance dose (two 2.5 gram and three 500 mg packets)
70 to 79 kg: 11 gram loading dose (four 2.5 gram and two 500 mg packets); 5.5 gram maintenance dose (two 2.5 gram and one 500 mg packets)
60 to 69 kg: 10 gram loading dose (four 2.5 gram packets); 5 gram maintenance (two 2.5 gram packets)
For patients weighing 20 to 59 kg, determine the appropriate number of 2.5 gram and/or 500 mg powder packets to dissolve in 150 mL of caffeine-free diet cola or other diet soft drink as follows:
50 to 59 kg: 8 gram loading dose (three 2.5 gram and one 500 mg packets); 4 gram maintenance dose (one 2.5 gram and three 500 mg packets)
40 to 49 kg: 7 gram loading dose (two 2.5 gram and four 500 mg packets); 3.5 gram maintenance dose (one 2.5 gram and two 500 mg packets)
30 to 39 kg: 6 gram loading dose (two 2.5 gram and two 500 mg packets); 3 gram maintenance dose (one 2.5 gram and one 500 mg packets)
20 to 29 kg: 4 gram loading dose (one 2.5 gram and three 500 mg packets); 2 gram maintenance dose (four 500 mg packets)
For pediatric patients weighing 1 to 19 kg, dissolve 5 grams (two 2.5 gram packets) in 100 mL of water to create a 50 mg/mL solution. Calculate the loading and maintenance dose using the patients weight as follows:
Loading dose: Multiply weight in kg by 140 mg/kg and divide by the concentration of the solution (50 mg/mL) to obtain the dose in mL. Administer using an oral syringe.
Maintenance dose: Multiply weight in kg by 70 mg/kg and divide by the concentration of the solution (50 mg/mL) to obtain the dose in mL. Administer using an oral syringe.
Once the powder is dissolved, administer the oral solution immediately.
Freshly prepare each dose and utilize within 1 hour.
If the patient vomits within 1 hour of administration, repeat the dose.
Administration via a nasoduodenal tube may be considered for patients who are persistently unable to retain the orally administered dose.
 
Nebulizer solution for oral administration
Oral acetylcysteine has very poor taste and a strong sulfur-like odor. Diluting the solution with a very cold beverage (e.g., soda, orange juice), serving in a cup with a lid, and drinking the solution through a straw may help to increase palatability and lower the risk of vomiting.
Dilution of 10% solution: 1 mL of diluent for every 1 mL of solution.
Dilution of 20% solution: 3 mL of diluent for every 1 mL of solution.
If the patient cannot drink, the solution may be administered via a nasogastric tube.
Use diluted solutions within 1 hour of preparation.
If the patient vomits within 1 hour of administration, repeat dose.
Storage: Remaining undiluted solutions in opened vials can be stored in the refrigerator up to 96 hours.


Injectable Administration


Prior to initiating treatment, decide which of the treatment regimens (3-Bag, 2-Bag, or 1-Bag) will be used.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. The color of the IV formulation may turn from colorless to a slight pink or purple color after the stopper is punctured; however, the quality of the product is not affected.


Intravenous Administration


Dilution
The IV formulation is hyperosmolar (2,600 mOsmol/L) and must be diluted prior to administration.
Compatible diluents include: Sterile Water for Injection, 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection. In general, 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection is the preferred diluent because of a more consistent osmolar profile, reduced delivery of free water to the patient, and it better approximates physiologic fluids. Sterile Water for Injection and 5% Dextrose Injection can be considered if sodium load is a concern.
The diluent volume will vary based on patient weight and chosen dosage regimen (3-bag, 2-bag, or 1-bag) as follows:
3-bag regimen loading dose (Bag 1):
weighing 5 to 20 kg: 3 mL/kg
weighing 21 to 40 kg: 100 mL
weighing 41 kg or more: 200 mL
3-bag regimen second dose (Bag 2):
weighing 5 to 20 kg: 7 mL/kg
weighing 21 to 40 kg: 250 mL
weighing 41 kg or more: 500 mL
3-bag regimen third dose (Bag 3):
weighing 5 to 20 kg: 14 mL/kg
weighing 21 to 40 kg: 500 mL
weighing 41 kg or more: 1,000 mL
2-bag regimen loading dose (Bag 1):
weighing 41 kg or more: 1,000 mL
2-bag regimen second dose (Bag 2):
weighing 41 kg or more: 500 mL
1-bag regimen:
Dilute 30 g of acetylcysteine in 1,000 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection.
For patients requiring fluid restriction, reduce the dilution volume as clinically appropriate; however, carefully consider the osmolarity of the resultant solution and avoid infusion of a hyper- or hypo-osmolar solution. Dilution of acetylcysteine in each of the three solutions results in different osmolarity of acetylcysteine solution for IV injection. Adjust the osmolarity to a physiologically safe level (generally not less than 150 mOsmol/L in pediatric patients):
3-bag regimen (lowest concentration): 4 mg/mL
Sterile Water for Injection: 52 mOsmol/L
0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection: 194 mOsmol/L
5% Dextrose Injection: 311 mOsmol/L
3-bag regimen (highest concentration): 54.5 mg/mL
Sterile Water for Injection: 744 mOsmol/L
0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection: 855 mOsmol/L
5% Dextrose Injection: 957 mOsmol/L
2-bag regimen (lowest concentration): 7.9 mg/mL
Sterile Water for Injection: 105 mOsmol/L
0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection: 241 mOsmol/L
5% Dextrose Injection: 360 mOsmol/L
2-bag regimen (highest concentration): 18.2 mg/mL
Sterile Water for Injection: 239 mOsmol/L
0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection: 368 mOsmol/L
5% Dextrose Injection: 487 mOsmol/L
Storage: The commercially available vials are intended for single-dose use and are preservative-free. Diluted solutions are stable for 24 hours at controlled room temperature.
 
IV Infusion
3-bag regimen: Administer the 3 portions of the regimen sequentially as a continuous infusion with no significant time between doses (total infusion time is 21 hours). The recommended infusion times for each dose are as follows:
Loading dose: Infuse over 1 hour.
Second dose: Infuse over 4 hours.
Third dose: Infuse over 16 hours.
2-bag regimen: Administer the 2 portions of the regimen sequentially as a continuous infusion with no significant time between doses (total infusion time is 20 hours). The recommended infusion times for each dose are as follows:
Loading dose: Infuse over 4 hours.
Second dose: Infuse over 16 hours.
Acetylcysteine reacts with certain materials (e.g., iron, nickel, copper, rubber); any part of the IV equipment that comes in contact with acetylcysteine should be made of plastic or glass.


Inhalation Administration


Solutions may be given via nebulization into a face mask, mouthpiece, tracheostomy, tent, or croupette; direct instillation intratracheally is also FDA-approved.
The 10% solution may be administered undiluted.
The 20% solution may be administered undiluted or, if desired, may be diluted in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or Sterile Water for Injection or Inhalation.
Most commercially available nebulizers will produce appropriate particle sizes; however, hand bulbs and some hand-operated nebulizers are not recommended for routine use in nebulizing acetylcysteine.
Do not place acetylcysteine directly into the chamber of a heated nebulizer.
For prolonged nebulizations, when 75% of the initial volume of acetylcysteine has been nebulized, a quantity of Sterile Water for Injection approximately equal to the remaining acetylcysteine volume should be added to the nebulizer.
Acetylcysteine reacts with certain materials (e.g., iron, nickel, copper, rubber); therefore, any part of the nebulizer equipment that comes in contact with acetylcysteine should be made of plastic or glass.
Storage: Opened vials may be stored in the refrigerator and used within 96 hours.


Other Administration Route(s)


Intratracheal Administration
Intratracheal instillation: Instill directly into the trachea or tracheostomy.
Percutaneous intratracheal catheter: Administer the solution via a syringe attached to the catheter.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

weighing 41 kg or more: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose (Max: 14 g/dose) PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose (Max: 7 g/dose) PO; 300 mg/kg IV as either 2 sequential doses (200 mg/kg/dose [Max: 20 g/dose], 100 mg/kg/dose [Max: 10 g/dose]) or 3 sequential doses (150 mg/kg/dose [Max: 15 g/dose], 50 mg/kg/dose [Max: 5 g/dose], 100 mg/kg/dose [Max: 10 g/dose]) per FDA-approved labeling; however, higher doses have been used off-label depending on specific method. Specific maximum dosage information is not available for inhalational dosing.
weighing less than 41 kg: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose PO; 300 mg/kg IV as 3 sequential doses (150 mg/kg/dose, 50 mg/kg/dose, 100 mg/kg/dose) per FDA-approved labeling; however, higher doses have been used off-label depending on specific method. Specific maximum dosage information is not available for inhalational dosing.

Geriatric

weighing 41 kg or more: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose (Max: 14 g/dose) PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose (Max: 7 g/dose) PO; 300 mg/kg IV as either 2 sequential doses (200 mg/kg/dose [Max: 20 g/dose], 100 mg/kg/dose [Max: 10 g/dose]) or 3 sequential doses (150 mg/kg/dose [Max: 15 g/dose], 50 mg/kg/dose [Max: 5 g/dose], 100 mg/kg/dose [Max: 10 g/dose]) per FDA-approved labeling; however, higher doses have been used off-label depending on specific method. Specific maximum dosage information is not available for inhalational dosing.
weighing less than 41 kg: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose PO; 300 mg/kg IV as 3 sequential doses (150 mg/kg/dose, 50 mg/kg/dose, 100 mg/kg/dose) per FDA-approved labeling; however, higher doses have been used off-label depending on specific method. Specific maximum dosage information is not available for inhalational dosing.

Adolescents

weighing 41 kg or more: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose (Max: 14 g/dose) PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose (Max: 7 g/dose) PO; 300 mg/kg IV as either 2 sequential doses (200 mg/kg/dose [Max: 20 g/dose], 100 mg/kg/dose [Max: 10 g/dose]) or 3 sequential doses (150 mg/kg/dose [Max: 15 g/dose], 50 mg/kg/dose [Max: 5 g/dose], 100 mg/kg/dose [Max: 10 g/dose]) per FDA-approved labeling; however, higher doses have been used off-label. Specific maximum dosage information is not available for inhalational dosing.
weighing less than 41 kg: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose PO; 300 mg/kg IV as 3 sequential doses (150 mg/kg/dose, 50 mg/kg/dose, 100 mg/kg/dose) per FDA-approved labeling; however, higher doses have been used off-label depending on specific method. Specific maximum dosage information is not available for inhalational dosing.

Children

weighing 41 kg or more: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose (Max: 14 g/dose) PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose (Max: 7 g/dose) PO; 300 mg/kg IV as either 2 sequential doses (200 mg/kg/dose [Max: 20 g/dose], 100 mg/kg/dose [Max: 10 g/dose]) or 3 sequential doses (150 mg/kg/dose [Max: 15 g/dose], 50 mg/kg/dose [Max: 5 g/dose], 100 mg/kg/dose [Max: 10 g/dose]) per FDA-approved labeling; however, higher doses have been used off-label. Specific maximum dosage information is not available for inhalational dosing.
weighing less than 41 kg: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose PO; 300 mg/kg IV as 3 sequential doses (150 mg/kg/dose, 50 mg/kg/dose, 100 mg/kg/dose) per FDA-approved labeling; however, higher doses have been used off-label depending on specific method. Specific maximum dosage information is not available for inhalational dosing.

Infants

weighing 5 kg or more: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose PO; 300 mg/kg IV as 3 sequential doses (150 mg/kg/dose, 50 mg/kg/dose, 100 mg/kg/dose) per FDA-approved labeling; however, higher doses have been used off-label. Specific maximum dosage information is not available for inhalational dosing.
weighing less than 5 kg: for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose PO; IV dosing has not been established. Specific maximum dosage information is not available for inhalational dosing.

Neonates

for acetaminophen overdose, 140 mg/kg/dose PO loading dose, then 70 mg/kg/dose PO; safety and efficacy of IV or nebulized dosage formulations have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Acetadote 200mg/mL Solution for Injection

Acetylcysteine 10% Nebulizer solution

Acetylcysteine 20% Nebulizer solution

Acetylcysteine 200mg/1mL Solution for injection

Acetylcysteine 500mg Oral capsule

Acetylcysteine Bulk powder

Leader NAC N-Acetyl Cysteine 600mg Capsule

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available. Some experts have recommended the following adjustment for adult patients receiving systemic therapy of 140 mg/kg load, then 70 mg/kg every 4 hours x 17 doses:
CrCl 10 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
CrCl less than 10 mL/minute: Administer 75% of the recommended dose.
 
Hemodialysis
Hemodialysis may remove some acetylcysteine; however, specific guidelines for dosage adjustments are not available.
 
Peritoneal dialysis
No dosage adjustment is needed.
 
Continuous renal replacement therapy
Administer 75% of the recommended dose.

© 2026 Elsevier