=== Disulfiram (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 202)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Disulfiram is used in the management of ethanol abuse.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 500 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): blurred vision, chest pain (unspecified), confusion, dyspnea, flushing, headache, heart failure, hyperhidrosis, hypotension, palpitations, respiratory depression, seizures, sinus tachycardia, syncope, vertigo, weakness, neuritis, optic neuritis, peripheral neuropathy, cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, jaundice, drowsiness, dysgeusia, fatigue

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: WARNING: Disulfiram should never be administered to patients with ethanol intoxication and should never be administered to patients without their knowledge.

Brand Names
  - Antabuse

Dosage Forms
  - Disulfiram 250mg Oral tablet
  - Disulfiram 500mg Oral tablet
  - Disulfiram Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 500 mg PO once daily every morning for 1 to 2 weeks, then reduce to 250 mg PO once daily. The dose may be taken in the evening if drowsiness occurs. Recommended maintenance dosage range: 125 mg to 500 mg PO once daily. Max: 500 mg/day PO. Required duration of treatment ranges from months to years, and is dependent on the patient's ability to abstain from ingesting alcohol. Pharmacotherapy should be used as a part of a comprehensive management program that includes psychosocial support and treatment.
    Heading
    For the maintenance treatment of alcohol dependence

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  WARNING: Disulfiram should never be administered to patients with ethanol intoxication and should never be administered to patients without their knowledge. Relatives of patients receiving the drug should be instructed about the precautions and risks associated with its use. Patients should carry identification cards describing the symptoms of a reaction and the persons to notify in case of an emergency.Disulfiram is classified as pregnancy category B. There are no adequate human studies of the effects of this drug upon the human fetus. Animal reproduction studies have shown no adverse fetal effects.It is not known if disulfiram is excreted into human milk, but excretion should be expected based on the chemical properties of the drug. No reports describing the drugs use during breast-feeding are available; caution is recommended.Patients should be warned to avoid ethanol ingestion including ethanol-containing foods or medications (e.g., vinegar, cough syrup, and sauces) while receiving disulfiram because a disulfiram-ethanol reaction can occur. The application of alcohol-containing linaments or lotions also may precipitate this reaction, and patients should be warned that reactions can occur up to 14 days following cessation of therapy.Hypersensitivity and hematological disease have been reported during the administration of disulfiram. Hepatic disease or insufficiency may be exacerbated. Hepatic toxicity including hepatic failure resulting in transplantation or death have been reported. Severe and sometimes fatal hepatitis associated with disulfiram therapy may develop even after many months of therapy. Hepatic toxicity has occurred in patients with or without prior history of abnormal liver function. Patients should be advised to immediately notify their physician of any early symptoms of hepatitis, such as fatigue, weakness, malaise, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, jaundice or dark urine. Baseline and follow-up liver function tests (10 to 14 days) are suggested to detect any hepatic dysfunction that may result with disulfiram therapy. In addition, a complete blood count and serum chemistries, including liver function tests, should be monitored.Disulfiram therapy can exacerbate certain conditions, such as diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, seizure disorder, cerebral damage, abnormal EEGs, hypothyroidism, renal disease, and multiple drug dependence, so the drug should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with these conditions.Disulfiram is contraindicated for use in patients with cardiac disease (i.e., myocardial disease or coronary occlusion), ethanol intoxication, or psychosis.Disulfiram is contraindicated for use in individuals who have disulfiram hypersensitivity or are allergic to other thiuram-related compounds (i.e., those used in pesticides or rubber vulcanization). Therefore, patients with rubber contact dermatitis should be evaluated for hypersensitivity to disulfiram.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    ethanol ingestion, ethanol intoxication
    General Information
    Disulfiram is contraindicated in patients with recent ethanol ingestion. Disulfiram should never be administered to a patient in a state of ethanol intoxication or without the patient's full knowledge and consent. Patients receiving disulfiram should be informed of the risks, carry identification cards with emergency contact information and reaction symptoms, and be counseled that reactions can occur up to 14 days after stopping disulfiram. Do not give disulfiram if there has been recent consumption of alcohol-containing preparations (e.g., cough and cold syrups). The consumption of food or medications that may contain ethanol or the application of alcohol-containing products (e.g., hand sanitizers, lotions, or perfumes) can also trigger reactions that may include flushing, throbbing headache or neck pain, respiratory difficulty, nausea, copious vomiting, sweating, thirst, chest pain, palpitation, dyspnea, hyperventilation, tachycardia, hypotension, syncope, marked uneasiness, weakness, vertigo, blurred vision, and confusion. Severe reactions may cause respiratory depression, cardiovascular collapse, arrhythmias, myocardial infarction, acute congestive heart failure, unconsciousness, convulsions, and death. Reaction severity varies with each individual, but often depends on the amounts of disulfiram and alcohol ingested, with mild reactions occurring in the sensitive individual at blood alcohol concentrations of 5 to 10 mg/100 mL. Fully developed symptoms typically occur at 50 mg/100 mL, and unconsciousness usually results at 125 to 150 mg per 100 mL. Duration of the reaction varies, from 30 to 60 minutes up to several hours in the more severe cases, or as long as there is alcohol in the blood.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Disulfiram is also contraindicated in people who are allergic to other thiuram-related compounds (i.e., those used in pesticides or rubber vulcanization). People with rubber contact dermatitis should be evaluated for hypersensitivity to disulfiram. Some people who are sensitive to accelerators (like thiurams) used in rubber manufacturing, including latex, may experience allergic reactions to disulfiram.
    Headline
    coronary artery disease, myocardial disease, psychotic disorder
    General Information
    Disulfiram is contraindicated in the presence of severe myocardial disease or coronary occlusion (coronary artery disease) and in people with psychosis or a psychotic disorder.
    Headline
    hepatic cirrhosis, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Disulfiram should be used with extreme caution in people with hepatic cirrhosis or hepatic failure/insufficiency, as accidental disulfiram-alcohol reactions in these patients can be dangerous. Additionally, hepatic toxicity (including hepatic failure) has been reported following use of disulfiram therapy in people with and without a prior history of abnormal liver function. Counsel patients to immediately notify their care team of any early symptoms of hepatitis, such as fatigue, weakness, malaise, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, jaundice or dark urine. Liver function tests should be monitored at baseline and periodically during treatment to detect any hepatic dysfunction that may result from disulfiram therapy.
    Headline
    brain lesion, diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, nephritis, seizure disorder
    General Information
    Disulfiram should be used with extreme caution in people with diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, seizure disorder, cerebral damage (brain lesion or injury), or with chronic or acute nephritis. In people with these conditions, an accidental disulfiram-alcohol reaction could be dangerous.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    The safe use of disulfiram during pregnancy has not been established. Therefore, disulfiram should be used during pregnancy only when the probable benefits outweigh the possible fetal risks. There are no well-controlled human studies of the effects of disulfiram during pregnancy. It is not known if disulfiram crosses the placenta, but the molecular weight of the drug suggests that placental transfer is likely. Various abnormalities (e.g., club feet, Pierre-Robin sequence, VACTERL association with radial aplasia, cleft soft palate, microcephaly, phocomelia) have been documented in infants of women treated with disulfiram during pregnancy. In some cases, disulfiram exposure in utero has not resulted in adverse neonatal outcomes. In a surveillance study, one major birth defect (cardiovascular) was observed (one expected) among 25 newborns who had been exposed to disulfiram during the first trimester. Furthermore, the intensity of the disulfiram-alcohol reaction, which can involve severe acute autonomic instability, including hypertension, can also be considered a risk to maternal and fetal health. Pregnancy outcomes reported following disulfiram administration may be complicated by maternal use of ethanol or other substances of abuse, making it difficult to determine the exact role of disulfiram in causing birth defects. The adverse effects of alcohol abuse on the fetus during pregnancy are well-documented. If supportive measures are ineffective, the fetal risks of continued maternal alcohol abuse should be weighed against the potential risks of the medications to deter alcohol use. None of the available medications to treat alcohol use disorders, including disulfiram and naltrexone, have been adequately studied in pregnancy.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of disulfiram in breast-feeding patients. There are no specific studies on the safety of disulfiram during breastfeeding, and it is unknown if it passes into human milk. If the breastfed child is exposed to any medications or other items containing alcohol, they may potentially experience a disulfiram-alcohol reaction, which could be serious. If maternal supportive measures to deter alcohol use are ineffective, consider the risks to the breastfed child from alcohol exposure in breast milk from continued maternal alcohol abuse with the potential for adverse medication effects. Alcohol is excreted in human milk and the risks of alcohol exposure are well documented. Consider alternatives to disulfiram. Naltrexone is usually considered compatible with breast-feeding as it is minimally excreted into human milk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    The safe use of disulfiram during pregnancy has not been established. Therefore, disulfiram should be used during pregnancy only when the probable benefits outweigh the possible fetal risks. There are no well-controlled human studies of the effects of disulfiram during pregnancy. It is not known if disulfiram crosses the placenta, but the molecular weight of the drug suggests that placental transfer is likely. Various abnormalities (e.g., club feet, Pierre-Robin sequence, VACTERL association with radial aplasia, cleft soft palate, microcephaly, phocomelia) have been documented in infants of women treated with disulfiram during pregnancy. In some cases, disulfiram exposure in utero has not resulted in adverse neonatal outcomes. In a surveillance study, one major birth defect (cardiovascular) was observed (one expected) among 25 newborns who had been exposed to disulfiram during the first trimester. Furthermore, the intensity of the disulfiram-alcohol reaction, which can involve severe acute autonomic instability, including hypertension, can also be considered a risk to maternal and fetal health. Pregnancy outcomes reported following disulfiram administration may be complicated by maternal use of ethanol or other substances of abuse, making it difficult to determine the exact role of disulfiram in causing birth defects. The adverse effects of alcohol abuse on the fetus during pregnancy are well-documented. If supportive measures are ineffective, the fetal risks of continued maternal alcohol abuse should be weighed against the potential risks of the medications to deter alcohol use. None of the available medications to treat alcohol use disorders, including disulfiram and naltrexone, have been adequately studied in pregnancy.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of disulfiram in breast-feeding patients. There are no specific studies on the safety of disulfiram during breastfeeding, and it is unknown if it passes into human milk. If the breastfed child is exposed to any medications or other items containing alcohol, they may potentially experience a disulfiram-alcohol reaction, which could be serious. If maternal supportive measures to deter alcohol use are ineffective, consider the risks to the breastfed child from alcohol exposure in breast milk from continued maternal alcohol abuse with the potential for adverse medication effects. Alcohol is excreted in human milk and the risks of alcohol exposure are well documented. Consider alternatives to disulfiram. Naltrexone is usually considered compatible with breast-feeding as it is minimally excreted into human milk.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Disulfiram can decrease the hepatic oxidative metabolism of alprazolam if administered concomitantly. Patients receiving alprazolam therapy should be monitored for signs of altered benzodiazepine response when disulfiram is initiated or discontinued.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of cyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. Disulfiram is known to inhibit some of the hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes involved in cyclic antidepressant metabolism.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dose of disulfiram when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. In a single patient, the combined use of disulfiram and omeprazole caused disorientation, confusion, and nightmares. These reactions occurred on 2 separate challenges when omeprazole was added to disulfiram therapy.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Use caution if disulfiram and aprepitant, fosaprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in disulfiram-related adverse effects, including for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of disulfiram. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-foldy, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important.
Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C: (Moderate) As ascorbic acid, vitamin C has on occasion been used as a specific antidote for symptoms resulting from interaction between ethanol and disulfiram, it may be expected that the administration of large doses of vitamin C may interfere with the effectiveness of disulfiram given to patients to encourage abstinence from alcohol.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dose of disulfiram when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. In a single patient, the combined use of disulfiram and omeprazole caused disorientation, confusion, and nightmares. These reactions occurred on 2 separate challenges when omeprazole was added to disulfiram therapy.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with atazanavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with atazanavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Bendamustine: (Major) Consider the use of an alternative therapy if disulfiram treatment is needed in patients receiving bendamustine. Disulfiram may increase bendamustine exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions (e.g., myelosuppression, infection, hepatotoxicity). Bendamustine is a CYP1A2 substrate and disulfiram is a CYP1A2 inhibitor.
Benznidazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of benznidazole with disulfiram or in patients who have taken disulfiram within the last 2 weeks is contraindicated. Although not reported with benznidazole, psychotic reactions have been reported in patients concurrently taking disulfiram and other nitroimidazole agents, of which benznidazole is structurally similar to.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Contraindicated) The combination of systemic metronidazole and disulfiram is contraindicated. Do not administer systemic metronidazole concomitantly or within 2 weeks after the administration of disulfiram because additive CNS toxic effects can occur. Case reports have described the development of CNS toxicity after metronidazole was administered with disulfiram, resulting in psychosis and confusion. This toxicity is believed to occur because of combined inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase. When metronidazole and disulfiram are combined, symptoms may become evident within 10 to 14 days, and symptoms may remain for 2 to 3 days after the drugs are discontinued.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Contraindicated) The combination of systemic metronidazole and disulfiram is contraindicated. Do not administer systemic metronidazole concomitantly or within 2 weeks after the administration of disulfiram because additive CNS toxic effects can occur. Case reports have described the development of CNS toxicity after metronidazole was administered with disulfiram, resulting in psychosis and confusion. This toxicity is believed to occur because of combined inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase. When metronidazole and disulfiram are combined, symptoms may become evident within 10 to 14 days, and symptoms may remain for 2 to 3 days after the drugs are discontinued.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Monitor patients for the development of peripheral neuropathy when receiving bortezomib in combination with other drugs that can cause peripheral neuropathy like disulfiram; the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive.
Bosentan: (Moderate) Disulfiram inhibits CYP2C9 and may theoretically lead to elevated plasma concentrations of bosentan when coadministered. Monitor for potential adverse effects of bosentan during coadministration; excessive bosentan dosage may result in hypotension or elevated hepatic enzymes.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with disulfiram is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and disulfiram is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) The safety and efficacy of concomitant use of naltrexone and disulfiram is unknown. There is the possibility of additive hepatotoxicity and concurrent use of these agents is not recommended. If concomitant use of naltrexone and disulfiram is required, liver function tests should be performed prior to beginning combination therapy, then they should be repeated every 2 weeks for 1 to 2 months. Continue monitoring LFTs monthly after the third month of combined use.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease. (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study; however, the decrease could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Disulfiram competes for the binding sites on hepatic cytochrome P-450 with benzodiazepines that undergo oxidative metabolism, including chlordiazepoxide, thereby slowing the metabolism of benzodiazepines and increasing their steady-state plasma concentrations.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Disulfiram competes for the binding sites on hepatic cytochrome P-450 with benzodiazepines that undergo oxidative metabolism, including chlordiazepoxide, thereby slowing the metabolism of benzodiazepines and increasing their steady-state plasma concentrations. (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Disulfiram competes for the binding sites on hepatic cytochrome P-450 with benzodiazepines that undergo oxidative metabolism, including chlordiazepoxide, thereby slowing the metabolism of benzodiazepines and increasing their steady-state plasma concentrations.
Chlorhexidine: (Minor) Some chlorhexidine oral rinses contain ethanol in significant percentages. Although chlorhexidine is poorly absorbed from the GI tract and the products are intended for oral topical rinse and not for systemic ingestion, there is a potential for interaction with disulfiram when such products are swallowed.
Chlorzoxazone: (Minor) Chlorzoxazone is a known substrate for the cytochrome P450 isozyme CYP2E1. Disulfiram inhibits CYP2E1 and has been shown to interfere with the clearance of chlorzoxazone.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with ciprofloxacin. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Ciprofloxacin is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Disulfiram can decrease the hepatic oxidative metabolism of clonazepam if administered concomitantly. Patients receiving clonazepam should be monitored for signs of an exaggerated response if disulfiram is used concomitantly.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Disulfiram can decrease the hepatic oxidative metabolism of benzodiazepines if administered concomitantly. Patients receiving clorazepate should be monitored for signs of an exaggerated response if any of the above drugs are used concomitantly.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Caution is advisable during concurrent use of disulfiram and clozapine. Disulfiram is an inhibitor of CYP1A2, one of the isoenzymes responsible for the metabolism of clozapine. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Elevated plasma concentrations of clozapine occurring through CYP inhibition may potentially increase the risk of life-threatening arrhythmias, sedation, anticholinergic effects, seizures, orthostasis, or other adverse effects. When initiating clozapine or adding a mild or moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor to clozapine treatment, monitor for adverse reactions and consider reducing the clozapine dose if necessary. If the inhibitor is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effectiveness and consider increasing the clozapine dose if necessary.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cocaine and disulfiram. Consider using other local anesthetic agents. Disulfiram increased the Cmax and the AUC of cocaine by 2- to 3-fold and 3- to 6-fold, respectively, in a study of volunteers with cocaine-abuse histories who received intranasal cocaine after disulfiram. Disulfiram increased the heart rate response to cocaine compared to placebo. After administration of 2 mg/kg cocaine intranasally, disulfiram-treated patients also experienced increased diastolic and systolic blood pressures.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Cyclosporine parenteral and oral solutions contain ethanol; liquid-filled capsules contain ethanol in lower percentages. Administration of ethanol-containing formulations of cyclosporine to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations.
Darunavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Disulfiram may compete for the binding sites on hepatic cytochrome P-450 (CYP) with benzodiazepines that undergo oxidative metabolism such as diazepam, thereby slowing the metabolism of diazepam and increasing its steady-state plasma concentrations.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) CYP450 enzyme inhibitors, like disulfiram, may inhibit the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol, thereby decreasing the formation of the active metabolite and thus, decreasing efficacy. Patients should be monitored for a decrease in efficacy if CYP450 inhibitors are coadministered with doxercalciferol.
droNABinol: (Major) Dronabinol oral solution is contraindicated for use within 14 days of disulfiram. Discontinue disulfiram at least 14 days before starting dronabinol oral solution and do not administer disulfiram within 7 days of completing treatment with dronabinol oral solution. Concomitant use may cause a disulfiram-reaction. Dronabinol oral solution contains 50% (w/w) dehydrated alcohol.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is metabolized by and is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Disulfiram is a substrate for CYP3A4. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP3A substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Co-administration of duloxetine and potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided. Duloxetine is partially metabolized by CYP1A2. One study involving a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor in concomitant use with duloxetine showed that duloxetine exposure was significantly increased. Concurrent use of duloxetine and disulfiram, a CYP1A2 inhibitor, may result in excessive serotonin activity. Careful monitoring is recommended if concurrent therapy is considered necessary.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) The pathway to disulfiram activation is mediated by CYP3A4/5 (major), CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2E1. Efavirenz is an in vivo inducer of CYP3A4 and CY2B6. Increased disulfiram activation may occur if these drugs are administered together.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) The pathway to disulfiram activation is mediated by CYP3A4/5 (major), CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2E1. Efavirenz is an in vivo inducer of CYP3A4 and CY2B6. Increased disulfiram activation may occur if these drugs are administered together.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) The pathway to disulfiram activation is mediated by CYP3A4/5 (major), CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2E1. Efavirenz is an in vivo inducer of CYP3A4 and CY2B6. Increased disulfiram activation may occur if these drugs are administered together.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering disulfiram with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated disulfiram plasma concentrations. Disulfiram is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of disulfiram may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 inhibitor, while disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Moderate) Disulfiram has been shown to inhibit caffeine elimination. Caffeine elimination decreased by 30 percent in those patients that were not recovering alcoholics and by 24 percent in those patients that were recovering alcoholics. During disulfiram therapy, patients may need to limit their caffeine intake if nausea, nervousness, tremor, restlessness, palpitations, or insomnia complaints occur. Adverse events were not noted during this pharmacokinetic study, however, the decrease in caffeine clearance could be significant in some patients, including some patients with cardiovascular disease.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Disulfiram can decrease the hepatic oxidative metabolism of benzodiazepines if administered concomitantly. Patients receiving estazolam therapy should be monitored for signs of altered benzodiazepine response when disulfiram is initiated or discontinued.
Ethanol: (Contraindicated) Advise patients to avoid alcohol and alcohol-containing products, including food products and topical preparations, while taking disulfiram. Patients should abstain from alcohol for at least 12 hours prior to beginning disulfiram therapy and should continue to avoid alcohol for at least 14 days after their last dose of disulfiram. When alcohol is consumed, disulfiram increases serum acetaldehyde concentrations causing a disulfiram-alcohol reaction that can last from 30 minutes to several hours. Disulfiram-alcohol reactions are extremely unpleasant. Symptom intensity and duration are generally dependent upon the disulfiram dosage and the amount of alcohol ingested. Symptoms may include flushing, throbbing in the head and neck, throbbing headache, respiratory difficulty, nausea, copious vomiting, sweating, thirst, chest pain, palpitation, dyspnea, hyperventilation, tachycardia, hypotension, syncope, marked uneasiness, weakness, vertigo, blurred vision, and confusion. In severe reactions, respiratory depression, cardiovascular collapse, arrhythmias, myocardial infarction, acute congestive heart failure, unconsciousness, convulsions, and death may occur. (Moderate) Although the injection of alcohol used for therapeutic procedures is not expected to produce significant systemic effects of ethanol, use caution with concomitant use of disulfiram. Disulfiram-like side effects, including nausea, vomiting, tachycardia, headache, flushing, and abdominal cramps, may occur.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fexinidazole with disulfiram or in patients who have taken disulfiram within the last 2 weeks. Although not reported with fexinidazole, psychotic reactions have been reported in patients concurrently taking disulfiram and other nitroimidazole agents.
Fezolinetant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fezolinetant and disulfiram is contraindicated due to the risk of increased fezolinetant exposure which may increase the risk of fezolinetant-related adverse effects. Fezolinetant is a CYP1A2 substrate; disulfiram is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP1A2 inhibitor increased fezolinetant overall exposure by 100%.
Fidanacogene Elaparvovec: (Moderate) Monitor for hepatoxicity during concomitant use of fidanacogene elaparvovec and disulfiram. Both medications have been associated with hepatic injury and concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Hepatic injury may also lead to decreased fidanacogene elaparvovec efficacy.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Disulfiram may compete with flurazepam for hepatic CYP450 binding sites, thereby slowing the metabolism of flurazepam and increasing the steady-state plasma concentrations. This may increase the risk for benzodiazepine-related side effects such as dizziness, sedation, low blood pressure, or other flurazepam-related adverse effects.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Disulfiram can interfere with the metabolism of hydantoin anticonvulsants, particularly phenytoin, resulting in increased serum concentrations and possible phenytoin toxicity (i.e., ataxia, hyperreflexia, nystagmus, tremor). The mechanism is most likely due to inhibition of CYP2C9 by disulfiram. Phenytoin serum concentrations should be performed prior to and during disulfiram administration, and dosages of either agent should be adjusted accordingly. This interaction may not occur if disulfiram therapy is initiated prior to beginning phenytoin, but, in this scenario, if disulfiram therapy is discontinued, subtherapeutic phenytoin concentrations can ensue. A similar interaction may occur with fosphenytoin or ethotoin.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Glimepiride is metabolized by CYP2C9. It is possible for serum concentrations of glimepiride to rise when coadministered with drugs that inhibit CYP2C9 like disulfiram. Monitor serum glucose concentrations if glimepiride is coadministered with disulfiram. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Hydantoins: (Major) Disulfiram can interfere with the metabolism of hydantoin anticonvulsants, particularly phenytoin, resulting in increased serum concentrations and possible phenytoin toxicity (i.e., ataxia, hyperreflexia, nystagmus, tremor). The mechanism is most likely due to inhibition of CYP2C9 by disulfiram. Phenytoin serum concentrations should be performed prior to and during disulfiram administration, and dosages of either agent should be adjusted accordingly. This interaction may not occur if disulfiram therapy is initiated prior to beginning phenytoin, but, in this scenario, if disulfiram therapy is discontinued, subtherapeutic phenytoin concentrations can ensue. A similar interaction may occur with fosphenytoin or ethotoin.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with disulfiram, a CYP3A substrate, as disulfiram toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib.
Imipenem; Cilastatin: (Moderate) Disulfiram is potentially neurotoxic. Additive effects can occur if it is administered concomitantly with other neurotoxic medications including imipenem; cilastatin.
Imipenem; Cilastatin; Relebactam: (Moderate) Disulfiram is potentially neurotoxic. Additive effects can occur if it is administered concomitantly with other neurotoxic medications including imipenem; cilastatin.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with disulfiram may result in increased serum concentrations of disulfiram. Disulfiram is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isoniazid, INH: (Minor) Concomitant administration of isoniazid, INH and disulfiram has resulted in adverse CNS effects, including psychosis and coordination difficulties, in a limited number of patients. Data appears to be limited to one report; the incidence of the interaction is uncertain, but apparently quite small. Two-thirds of the group in this report did not experience an interaction, and in another report, 200 additional patients did not experience an interaction. Concurrent use need not be avoided, although patient response should be monitored and, if necessary, the disulfiram dose reduced, or treatment withdrawn.
Ixabepilone: (Contraindicated) The supplied diluent that must be used for reconstitution of ixabepilone has a high concentration of dehydrated alcohol (39.8% w/v). Administration of ixabepilone to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram may result in disulfiram-like reactions.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and disulfiram may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; disulfiram inhibits CYP1A2.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and disulfiram may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; disulfiram inhibits CYP1A2.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of systemic lidocaine and disulfiram may increase lidocaine plasma concentrations by decreasing lidocaine clearance and therefore prolonging the elimination half-life. Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if used together. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 substrate; disulfiram inhibits CYP1A2.
Lithium: (Major) Because lithium has the potential to impair cognitive and motor skills, it is advisable to avoid ethanol ingestion during treatment with lithium. In addition, some formulations of lithium solution contain alcohol; therefore, disulfiram should be avoided in patients receiving these products.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and disulfiram; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Lonafarnib is a CYP2C9 substrate and disulfiram is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Oral solutions of ritonavir contain ethanol. Administration of ritonavir oral solution to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations. (Major) The ingestion of ethanol by patients receiving disulfiram causes an extremely unpleasant reaction ('Antabuse Reaction') that can last from 30 minutes to several hours; however, the intensity and duration are dependent upon the disulfiram dosage. Oral solutions of lopinavir; ritonavir contain ethanol. Administration of lopinavir; ritonavir oral solution to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram may result in antabuse reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of disulfiram by decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, monitor patients closely for loss of disulfiram efficacy; a disulfiram dosage adjustment may be required to obtain the desired therapeutic effect. Do not exceed the maximum recommended dose. Disulfiram is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and is also a substrate of CYP2B6. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data also suggest that lumacaftor may induce CYP2B6.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may reduce the efficacy of disulfiram by decreasing its systemic exposure. If used together, monitor patients closely for loss of disulfiram efficacy; a disulfiram dosage adjustment may be required to obtain the desired therapeutic effect. Do not exceed the maximum recommended dose. Disulfiram is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and is also a substrate of CYP2B6. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data also suggest that lumacaftor may induce CYP2B6.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with disulfiram is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and disulfiram is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Consider a meloxicam dose reduction and monitor for adverse reactions if coadministration with disulfiram is necessary. Concurrent use may increase meloxicam exposure. Meloxicam is a CYP2C9 substrate and disulfiram is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Contraindicated) The combination of systemic metronidazole and disulfiram is contraindicated. Do not administer systemic metronidazole concomitantly or within 2 weeks after the administration of disulfiram because additive CNS toxic effects can occur. Case reports have described the development of CNS toxicity after metronidazole was administered with disulfiram, resulting in psychosis and confusion. This toxicity is believed to occur because of combined inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase. When metronidazole and disulfiram are combined, symptoms may become evident within 10 to 14 days, and symptoms may remain for 2 to 3 days after the drugs are discontinued.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Disulfiram may decrease the hepatic oxidative metabolism of benzodiazepines if administered concomitantly. Patients receiving midazolam should be monitored for signs of altered benzodiazepine response when midazolam is coadministered.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Use caution if mitotane and disulfiram are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of disulfiram and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and disulfiram is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of disulfiram.
Naltrexone: (Major) The safety and efficacy of concomitant use of naltrexone and disulfiram is unknown. There is the possibility of additive hepatotoxicity and concurrent use of these agents is not recommended. If concomitant use of naltrexone and disulfiram is required, liver function tests should be performed prior to beginning combination therapy, then they should be repeated every 2 weeks for 1 to 2 months. Continue monitoring LFTs monthly after the third month of combined use.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in nateglinide-related adverse effects, such as hypoglycemia, if concomitant use with disulfiram is necessary; a nateglinide dosage reduction may be required. Concomitant use may increase nateglinide exposure. Nateglinide is a CYP2C9 substrate and disulfiram is a CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Netupitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant medications that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4, such as disulfiram. The plasma concentrations of disulfiram can increase when co-administered with netupitant; the inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 can last for multiple days.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Oral solutions of ritonavir contain ethanol. Administration of ritonavir oral solution to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dose of disulfiram when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. In a single patient, the combined use of disulfiram and omeprazole caused disorientation, confusion, and nightmares. These reactions occurred on 2 separate challenges when omeprazole was added to disulfiram therapy.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dose of disulfiram when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. In a single patient, the combined use of disulfiram and omeprazole caused disorientation, confusion, and nightmares. These reactions occurred on 2 separate challenges when omeprazole was added to disulfiram therapy.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dose of disulfiram when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. In a single patient, the combined use of disulfiram and omeprazole caused disorientation, confusion, and nightmares. These reactions occurred on 2 separate challenges when omeprazole was added to disulfiram therapy.
Oritavancin: (Minor) Disulfiram is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of disulfiram may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
PACLitaxel: (Major) Some formulations of paclitaxel injection contain a high level of ethanol. Administration to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and disulfiram, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of disulfiram. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
Pexidartinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if pexidartinib is coadministered with disulfiram. Avoid concurrent use in patients with increased serum transaminases, total bilirubin, or direct bilirubin (more than ULN) or active liver or biliary tract disease.
Phenytoin: (Major) Disulfiram can interfere with the metabolism of hydantoin anticonvulsants, particularly phenytoin, resulting in increased serum concentrations and possible phenytoin toxicity (i.e., ataxia, hyperreflexia, nystagmus, tremor). The mechanism is most likely due to inhibition of CYP2C9 by disulfiram. Phenytoin serum concentrations should be performed prior to and during disulfiram administration, and dosages of either agent should be adjusted accordingly. This interaction may not occur if disulfiram therapy is initiated prior to beginning phenytoin, but, in this scenario, if disulfiram therapy is discontinued, subtherapeutic phenytoin concentrations can ensue. A similar interaction may occur with fosphenytoin or ethotoin.
Pimozide: (Major) Concurrent use of pimozide with CYP1A2 inhibitors such as disulfiram should be avoided if possible. Pimozide is metabolized primarily through CYP3A4, and to a lesser extent CYP1A2 and CYP2D6. Elevated pimozide concentrations occurring through inhibition of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and/or CYP1A2 can lead to QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Glimepiride is metabolized by CYP2C9. It is possible for serum concentrations of glimepiride to rise when coadministered with drugs that inhibit CYP2C9 like disulfiram. Monitor serum glucose concentrations if glimepiride is coadministered with disulfiram. Dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Pirfenidone: (Major) Discontinue disulfiram prior to beginning pirfenidone because it may increase exposure to pirfenidone. Disulfiram is a moderate inhibitor of CYP1A2 and a potent inhibitor of CYP2E1. Pirfenidone is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 with minor contributions from CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and disulfiram should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for disulfiram-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of disulfiram. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated disulfiram plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for disulfiram-related adverse events.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with disulfiram, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Disulfiram can decrease the hepatic metabolism of quazepam if administered concomitantly. Patients receiving quazepam should be monitored for signs of an exaggerated response if disulfiram is used concomitantly.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Coadministration of ramelteon with inhibitors of CYP2C9, such as disulfiram, may lead to increases in the serum concentrations of ramelteon.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monitor for dopaminergic adverse effects during concurrent use of rasagiline and disulfiram. Coadministration may result in increased rasagiline concentrations. A dose reduction of rasagiline may be necessary. Rasagiline is primarily metabolized by CYP1A2; disulfiram is a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor. When administered with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor, the AUC of rasagiline was increased by 83%.
Riluzole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of hepatic injury during coadministration of riluzole and disulfarim. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Discontinue riluzole if clinical signs of liver dysfunction are present.
Ritonavir: (Major) Oral solutions of ritonavir contain ethanol. Administration of ritonavir oral solution to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with disulfiram. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and disulfiram is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with disulfiram. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is an CYP2C9 substrate and disulfiram is an CYP2C9 inhibitor.
Sertraline: (Major) The ingestion of ethanol by patients receiving disulfiram causes an extremely unpleasant reaction that can last from 30 minutes to several hours. Oral sertraline solution contains a high percentage of alcohol (12%) and should not be co-administered with disulfiram. A disulfiram-like reaction is not expected with formulations of sertraline that do not contain alcohol.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Disulfiram decreases the activity of cytochrome P450 2E1 isoenzyme and may inhibit sevoflurane metabolism.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) The ingestion of ethanol by patients receiving disulfiram causes an extremely unpleasant reaction that can last from 30 minutes to several hours. Intravenous sulfamethoxazole; trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, cotrimoxazole contains ethanol and should not be co-administered with disulfiram. This reaction would not be expected to occur with oral sulfamethoxazole; trimethoprim.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that cause peripheral neuropathy such as disulfiram should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive effects.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Major) Aminophylline is a prodrug of theophylline. Disulfiram inhibits the hepatic hydroxylation and demethylation of theophylline, thereby increasing the serum levels of theophylline and increasing the risk for theophylline toxicity. Patients should be monitored for theophylline toxicity if disulfiram is added to aminophylline therapy. If aminophylline is added after disulfiram is begun and disulfiram is later discontinued, subtherapeutic theophylline serum concentrations can result. In addition, some preparations of aminophylline elixir may contain significant amounts of ethanol, which can cause reactions with disulfiram; read labels carefully. (Major) Disulfiram inhibits the hepatic hydroxylation and demethylation of theophylline, thereby increasing the serum levels of theophylline and increasing the risk for theophylline toxicity. Patients should be monitored for theophylline toxicity if disulfiram is added to theophylline therapy. If theophylline is added after disulfiram is begun and disulfiram is later discontinued, subtherapeutic theophylline serum concentrations can result. In addition, some preparations of theophylline elixir contain significant amounts of ethanol, which can cause reactions with disulfiram; read labels carefully.
Tinidazole: (Major) Do not use tinidazole in patients who have taken disulfiram within the last 2 weeks. Psychotic reactions have been reported in patients with alcoholism using another nitroimidazole and disulfiram concurrently.
Tipranavir: (Major) The Aptivus brand of tipranavir capsules contain alcohol. Administration of Aptivus capsules to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations.
Tranylcypromine: (Major) The combination of tranylcypromine and disulfiram should be avoided if possible. If they must be used together, closely monitor the patient for changes in mental status. A single, limited case report describes a potential interaction between tranylcypromine and disulfiram. Severe CNS adverse effects, including acute delirium, hallucinations, agitation and disorientation occurred after the patient received two different monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) in combination with disulfiram. For a depressive episode the patient first received moclobemide which had no therapeutic effect. Moclobemide was stopped and tranylcypromine was started at 10 mg twice a day. Within 48 hours, the patient patient developed acute delirium, which resolved within 24 hours of stopping the MAOI.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Disulfiram may decrease the hepatic oxidative metabolism of benzodiazepines if administered concomitantly. Patients receiving triazolam should be monitored for signs of altered benzodiazepine response when triazolam is coadministered.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Limited data suggest that the combination of tricyclic antidepressants with disulfiram can produce transient delirium. In addition, disulfiram may inhibit some of the CYP450 isoenzymes involved in tricyclic antidepressant metabolism, although the clinical significance is unknown.
Vemurafenib: (Minor) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and disulfiram may result in altered concentrations of disulfiram. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 and an inducer of CYP3A4. Disulfiram is a substrate of CYP1A2 and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Voriconazole is metabolized by the CYP2C9 isoenzyme, and drugs that are known to be inhibitors of CYP2C9, such as disulfiram, may theoretically lead to elevated plasma levels of voriconazole when coadministered.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with disulfiram is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Disulfiram is a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor and the S-enantiomer, the active metabolite of warfarin, is a CYP2C9 substrate. Disulfiram is also a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP1A2 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  The ingestion of ethanol by patients receiving disulfiram therapy causes an extremely unpleasant reaction that can last from 30 minutes to several hours. Disulfiram administration causes ethanol intolerance by interfering with the hepatic oxidation of acetaldehyde. The unpleasant reaction that occurs in patients who ingest ethanol while receiving this medication is believed to be related to the increased serum concentrations of acetaldehyde and includes a throbbing headache, dyspnea, throbbing in the neck, nausea/vomiting, diaphoresis, thirst, angina, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, heart failure, hypotension, blurred vision, vertigo, weakness, anxiety, syncope, and confusion. Typically, this reaction is followed by a deep sleep, but more severe reactions have occurred including respiratory depression, cardiac arrhythmias, and cardiovascular collapse. Fatalities have been reported rarely and usually are associated with administration of larger doses of disulfiram (> 500 mg daily) and ingestion of three or more alcoholic beverages.Some adverse effects can occur following the administration of disulfiram that are unrelated to a disulfiram-alcohol reaction. Such effects, including fatigue, drowsiness, impotence (erectile dysfunction), bilateral optic atrophy, and headache, may be more common during the initial 2 weeks of therapy and generally will subside with continued therapy or brief reduction of dosage.Adverse CNS effects can occur during disulfiram therapy and include irritability, vertigo, insomnia, dysarthria (slurred speech), disorientation, ataxia, confusion, and personality changes. Other adverse effects reported during disulfiram therapy include grand mal seizures, peripheral neuropathy, polyneuritis, optic neuritis, delirium, and psychosis. Medical attenetion is required if symptoms of neurotoxicity occur. Disulfiram therapy may exacerbate preexisting EEG disturbances.Cholestasis and fulminant hepatitis, hypersensitivity hepatitis, and blood dyscrasias have been reported during disulfiram administration. Hepatic toxicity including hepatic failure resulting in transplantation or death have been reported. Severe and sometimes fatal hepatitis associated with disulfiram therapy may develop even after many months of therapy. Hepatic toxicity has occurred in patients with or without prior history of abnormal liver function. Although fulminant hepatitis is rare, it is a potentially fatal condition, and survival rates are substantially increased if disulfiram therapy is discontinued as soon as elevated hepatic enzymes and/or jaundice become evident. Patients should be advised to immediately notify their physician of any early symptoms of hepatitis, such as fatigue, weakness, malaise, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, jaundice or dark urine. Bilirubin and hepatic enzyme concentrations should be determined regularly in patients in whom disulfiram-induced hepatitis is suspected.Disulfiram has been associated with acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). The nonfollicular, pustular, erythematous rash starts suddenly, is associated with fever above 38 degrees C, and is distinct from pustular psoriasis, although biopsy results in each reveal spongiform subcorneal pustules. Drugs are the main cause of AGEP. A period of 2—3 weeks after an inciting drug exposure appears necessary for a first episode of AGEP. Unintentional reexposure may cause a second episode within 2 days. Clinical presentation is diverse with cutaneous lesions beyond erythema and pustules present in half of the cases. For example, bullous lesions, edema, purpura, pruritus, and mucosal erosions are possible. The mean duration of the pustules is 9.7 days followed by an annular desquamation, as long as the causative drug or factor is discontinued. The physiopathological mechanisms of AGEP have not been determined but the pathological criteria of edema, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, eosinophil exocytosis, and keratinocyte focal necrosis are distinctive. Pustule confluence or very small pustules may lead a clinician to make an incorrect diagnosis of TEN, of drug-induced erythroderma, or of staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    blurred vision, chest pain (unspecified), confusion, dyspnea, flushing, headache, heart failure, hyperhidrosis, hypotension, nausea, palpitations, respiratory depression, seizures, sinus tachycardia, syncope, vertigo, vomiting, weakness
    General Information
    The ingestion of any amount of ethanol by patients receiving disulfiram causes an extremely unpleasant disulfiram reaction that can last from 30 minutes to several hours. Disulfiram administration causes ethanol intolerance by interfering with the hepatic oxidation of acetaldehyde. The unpleasant reaction that occurs is believed to be related to the increased serum concentrations of acetaldehyde and includes a throbbing headache, dyspnea, throbbing in the head and neck, flushing, nausea, copious vomiting, hyperhidrosis (sweating), thirst, chest pain (unspecified), palpitations, sinus tachycardia, hypotension, syncope, respiratory difficulty, hyperventilation, marked uneasiness, weakness, vertigo, blurred vision, and confusion. Typically, this reaction is followed by a deep sleep, but more severe reactions have occurred including respiratory depression, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiovascular collapse, acute congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction, unconsciousness, and seizures or convulsions. Fatalities have been reported rarely and usually are associated with administration of larger doses of disulfiram (more than 500 mg daily) and ingestion of 3 or more alcoholic beverages.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, atopic dermatitis
    General Information
    Dermatological adverse reactions have been reported with disulfiram use, including acneform eruptions (acne vulgaris) and allergic or atopic dermatitis. Skin eruptions are usually controlled with the administration of an antihistamine. These reactions may be more common during the initial 2 weeks of therapy and generally will subside with continued therapy or brief reduction of dosage.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      atopic dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    neuritis, optic neuritis, peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Optic neuritis, peripheral neuritis, polyneuritis, and peripheral neuropathy may occur in patients receiving disulfiram. Medical attention is required if symptoms of neurotoxicity occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      optic neuritis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neuritis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cholestasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatitis, jaundice
    General Information
    Cholestasis and fulminant hepatitis, hypersensitivity hepatitis, and blood dyscrasias have been reported during disulfiram administration. Hepatic toxicity including hepatic failure resulting in transplantation or death have been reported. Severe and sometimes fatal hepatitis associated with disulfiram therapy may develop even after many months of therapy. Hepatic toxicity has occurred in patients with or without prior history of abnormal liver function. Although fulminant hepatitis is rare, it is a potentially fatal condition, and survival rates are substantially increased if disulfiram therapy is discontinued as soon as elevated hepatic enzymes and/or jaundice become evident. Patients should be advised to immediately notify their physician of any early symptoms of hepatitis, such as fatigue, weakness, malaise, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, jaundice or dark urine. Bilirubin and hepatic enzyme concentrations should be determined regularly in patients in whom disulfiram-induced hepatitis is suspected.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cholestasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      jaundice
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)
    General Information
    Disulfiram has been associated with acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). The nonfollicular, pustular, erythematous rash starts suddenly, is associated with fever above 38 degrees C, and is distinct from pustular psoriasis, although biopsy results in each reveal spongiform subcorneal pustules. Drugs are the main cause of AGEP. A period of 2—3 weeks after an inciting drug exposure appears necessary for a first episode of AGEP. Unintentional reexposure may cause a second episode within 2 days. Clinical presentation is diverse with cutaneous lesions beyond erythema and pustules present in half of the cases. For example, bullous lesions, edema, purpura, pruritus, and mucosal erosions are possible. The mean duration of the pustules is 9.7 days followed by an annular desquamation, as long as the causative drug or factor is discontinued. The physiopathological mechanisms of AGEP have not been determined but the pathological criteria of edema, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, eosinophil exocytosis, and keratinocyte focal necrosis are distinctive. Pustule confluence or very small pustules may lead a clinician to make an incorrect diagnosis of TEN, of drug-induced erythroderma, or of staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    drowsiness, dysgeusia, fatigue
    General Information
    Transient drowsiness, fatigue, headache, and dysgeusia (as a metallic or garlic-like aftertaste) have been reported in patients receiving disulfiram. These reactions typically disappear spontaneously as treatment continues, but a dosage reduction may be required for them to abate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    impotence (erectile dysfunction)
    General Information
    Impotence (erectile dysfunction) has been reported as a transient adverse reaction in patients receiving disulfiram, which typically disappears spontaneously as treatment continues; a dosage reduction may be required, though.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    psychosis
    General Information
    Psychotic reactions have been noted in patients receiving disulfiram. Most cases were attributable in to high dosage, combined toxicity (with metronidazole or isoniazid), or to the unmasking of an underlying psychosis in patients stressed by the withdrawal of alcohol.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Disulfiram is used in the management of ethanol abuse. The drug is not a cure for alcoholism but rather is a deterrent to ethanol consumption. Disulfiram should be used only in highly motivated individuals who are receiving psychotherapy concomitantly. The purpose of disulfiram therapy is to aid the patient in maintaining abstinence until adequate self-motivation has been established. The effects of disulfiram in combination with ethanol were discovered accidentally by two Danish physicians investigating its use as an anthelmintic. The drug was approved by the FDA in 1951 for use in the treatment of alcoholism.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Disulfiram interferes with the hepatic oxidation of acetaldehyde. This enzymatic inhibition results from the drug's ability to compete with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) for binding sites on aldehyde dehydrogenase. Ethanol is initially metabolized to acetaldehyde by alcohol dehydrogenase. Disulfiram does not alter the rate of elimination of ethanol. Instead, ingestion of small amounts of ethanol in individuals receiving disulfiram results in serum acetaldehyde concentrations 5—10 times higher than those in patients not receiving the drug. The unpleasant reaction that occurs in patients is believed to be related to the increased serum concentrations of acetaldehyde. Patients can experience a throbbing headache, dyspnea, throbbing in the neck, nausea, copious vomiting, diaphoresis, thirst, chest pain, palpitation, tachycardia, hypotension, blurred vision, vertigo, weakness, anxiety, syncope, and confusion. This reaction can occur after consuming as little as 15 mL of 100 proof ethanol. Typically, this reaction is followed by a deep sleep, but more severe reactions have occurred including respiratory depression, arrhythmias, and cardiovascular collapse.
 
Deaths have also been reported following the administration of lower dosages of disulfiram and the ingestion of a single alcoholic drink. Tolerance to the drug has not been reported to date. By itself, disulfiram is relatively nontoxic, but due to its ability to inhibit hepatic enzymes, disulfiram interacts with many drugs that are hepatically metabolized, resulting in increased serum levels and corresponding adverse effects.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Although it is absorbed rapidly across the GI tract, 3—12 hours may pass before the effects of the drug are evident. Approximately 5—20% of an oral dose of the drug is excreted unchanged in the feces, with the rest excreted primarily in the urine as metabolites.
  Text
  Disulfiram is administered orally. It undergoes slow hepatic metabolism to diethyldithiocarbamate (a dopamine hydroxylase inhibitor), diethylamine, and carbon disulfide. A portion of a dose is excreted by the lungs as carbon disulfide. One-fifth of a dose may remain in the body for a week or longer, and the risk of drug accumulation should be considered. Ingestion of alcohol up to 2 weeks after cessation of drug therapy can still cause the unpleasant disulfiram-alcohol reaction.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: CYP2E1, CYP1A2, CYP3A4/5, CYP2B6
The relative selectivity of disulfiram for specific CYP isoforms may be duration of therapy dependent. Single-dose administration is reported to selectively inhibit CYP2E1 while chronic use has been shown to inhibit CYP2E1 and CYP1A2 metabolism by 95% and 34%, respectively. The pathway to disulfiram activation is mediated by CYP3A4/5 (major), CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2E1, thus several drugs may inhibit or induce the metabolism of disulfiram.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
WARNING: Disulfiram should never be administered to a patient with ethanol intoxication, and should never be administered to a patient without their knowledge. Relatives of patients receiving the drug should be instructed as to the precautions and risks associated with its use.
NOTE: It is important to check the alcohol content of other medications the patient is receiving prior to disulfiram therapy. Do not administer disulfiram within 12 hours of alcohol-containing preparations.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets may be crushed and mixed with fluids prior to administration.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    500 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Elderly
    Max Dosage
    500 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; the manufacturer warns that disulfiram should be used with extreme caution in patients with hepatic cirrhosis or insufficiency. Disulfiram has been reported to cause hepatic impairment and failure resulting in transplantation or death in some cases.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
