=== Aprocitentan — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5521)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Aprocitentan is an oral endothelin receptor antagonist approved for the treatment of hypertension in combination with other antihypertensive medications, to lower blood pressure in adult patients who are not adequately controlled on other medications.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 12.5 mg/day PO.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Aprocitentan is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class B or...

APROCITENTAN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

TRYVIO

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of hypertension, in combination with other antihypertensive medications, in adults not adequately controlled on other medications

Oral dosage
Adults


12.5 mg PO once daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Aprocitentan is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure (Child-Pugh class B or Child-Pugh class C). Avoid initiation of aprocitentan in persons with elevated hepatic enzymes of more than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Elevated hepatic enzymes and hepatotoxicity are known effects of endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs), including aprocitentan. Obtain liver function tests, including total bilirubin and serum aminotransferase, prior to initiation of treatment and repeat during treatment periodically as clinically indicated to decrease the risk of potential serious hepatotoxicity. Instruct individuals to contact their care team if they experience unexplained nausea, vomiting, right upper quadrant pain, fatigue, anorexia, scleral icterus, jaundice, dark urine, fever, or itching. Discontinue aprocitentan if sustained, unexplained, clinically relevant aminotransferase elevations occur or if elevations are accompanied by an increase in bilirubin of greater than 2 times the ULN, or if clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity occurs.


geriatric, New York Heart Association Class III heart failure, New York Heart Association Class IV heart failure, renal failure, renal impairment


Aprocitentan is not recommended in individuals with renal failure (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) less than 15 mL/minute) or on dialysis, as the impact on its pharmacokinetics are unknown. Individuals with renal impairment are at increased risk of edema/fluid retention. In aprocitentan clinical trials, edema/fluid retention was more common in geriatric individuals (age 65 years and older) than younger individuals (age younger than 65 years). Risk factors for the development of edema or fluid retention include older age and chronic renal disease. Aprocitentan has not been studied in individuals with heart failure (New York Heart Association Class III heart failure or New York Heart Association Class IV heart failure), unstable cardiac function, or with N-terminal prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide (NTproBNP) of 500 pg/mL or more; thus, it is not recommended for use in these individuals. Monitor for signs and symptoms of fluid retention, weight gain, and worsening heart failure. If clinically significant fluid retention develops, treat appropriately, and consider discontinuation of aprocitentan.


anemia


Initiation of aprocitentan is not recommended in individuals with clinically significant anemia. Decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit concentrations have occurred in aprocitentan clinical trials and following administration of other endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs). Typically, hemoglobin reductions occur early, stabilize thereafter, and are reversible upon discontinuation. Monitor hemoglobin prior to initiation of treatment and repeat during treatment periodically as clinically indicated.


pregnancy


Aprocitentan is contraindicated during pregnancy. Although postmarketing reports and published data with other endothelin receptor antagonists have not demonstrated a clear increase in fetal risk, available data are limited and insufficient to establish a reliable estimate of adverse fetal or neonatal outcomes. Counsel patients on the potential risk to the fetus. If pregnancy occurs, discontinue aprocitentan as soon as possible. Macitentan (for which aprocitentan is the major metabolite) was teratogenic in rats and rabbits. Cardiovascular and mandibular arch fusion malformations occurred at all doses tested during the period of organogenesis. The lowest doses produced aprocitentan exposures equivalent to (rats) and approximately 15-fold higher than (rabbits) clinical exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), based on AUC. In pre- and postnatal development studies, female rats treated with macitentan from late gestation through lactation had reduced pup survival and male offspring with impaired fertility at all doses. The lowest dose resulted in aprocitentan exposures approximately 2-fold higher than clinical exposure at the MRHD (AUC-based).


embryo-fetal toxicity, people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with aprocitentan. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise individuals to contact their physician immediately for pregnancy testing if the onset of menses is delayed or pregnancy is suspected. If pregnancy is detected, discontinue aprocitentan and discuss the risks to the patient, the pregnancy, and the fetus. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception prior to initiation of treatment, during treatment, and for 1 month after discontinuation of aprocitentan. Counsel individuals on pregnancy planning and prevention, including emergency contraception. Additionally, like other endothelin receptor antagonists, aprocitentan may have an adverse effect on spermatogenesis and cause male infertility. It is not known whether the effects on fertility would be reversible. Inform people who can cause pregnancy in others of the potential effects of aprocitentan on fertility.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking aprocitentan, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of aprocitentan in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Aprocitentan is excreted into the milk of lactating rats.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Aprocitentan is contraindicated during pregnancy. Although postmarketing reports and published data with other endothelin receptor antagonists have not demonstrated a clear increase in fetal risk, available data are limited and insufficient to establish a reliable estimate of adverse fetal or neonatal outcomes. Counsel patients on the potential risk to the fetus. If pregnancy occurs, discontinue aprocitentan as soon as possible. Macitentan (for which aprocitentan is the major metabolite) was teratogenic in rats and rabbits. Cardiovascular and mandibular arch fusion malformations occurred at all doses tested during the period of organogenesis. The lowest doses produced aprocitentan exposures equivalent to (rats) and approximately 15-fold higher than (rabbits) clinical exposure at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD), based on AUC. In pre- and postnatal development studies, female rats treated with macitentan from late gestation through lactation had reduced pup survival and male offspring with impaired fertility at all doses. The lowest dose resulted in aprocitentan exposures approximately 2-fold higher than clinical exposure at the MRHD (AUC-based).


Interactions

Sparsentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.


Adverse Reaction
edema, fluid retention


Edema or fluid retention was reported in 9% of aprocitentan 12.5 mg patients, 18% of aprocitentan 25 mg (twice the recommended aprocitentan dose) patients, and 2.1% of placebo patients; some cases required additional diuretic use. Risk factors for the development of edema or fluid retention include older age and chronic renal disease. An initial small decrease in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) may occur within the first 6 weeks of aprocitentan therapy followed by stabilization of eGFR. Monitor for signs and symptoms of fluid retention, weight gain, and worsening heart failure. If clinically significant fluid retention develops, treat appropriately, and consider discontinuation of aprocitentan.


anemia


Anemia was reported in 3.7% of aprocitentan 12.5 mg patients compared to 0% of placebo patients in clinical trials. A mean hemoglobin decrease of approximately 0.8 g/dL was reported in the initial 4-week double-blind treatment period with aprocitentan compared to no change in hemoglobin in placebo-treated subjects. A decrease in hemoglobin concentration of more than 2 g/dL from baseline was reported in 7% of aprocitentan-treated subjects compared to 1% of placebo-treated subjects. Additionally, a decrease in hemoglobin to less than 10 g/dL was observed in 3% of aprocitentan-treated subjects compared to 0% of placebo-treated subjects. Reductions in hemoglobin typically presented early, stabilized with continued therapy, and were reversible upon aprocitentan discontinuation. Assess hemoglobin concentrations prior to initiation of aprocitentan and periodically during treatment as clinically indicated.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity


Elevated hepatic enzymes and hepatotoxicity have been reported with endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs), including aprocitentan. In aprocitentan clinical trials, elevations in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) of more than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were rarely reported, including cases with positive rechallenge. There were no reported cases of hepatic failure or elevations in ALT and/or AST more than 3 times the ULN and total bilirubin more than 2 times the ULN in aprocitentan clinical trials. To decrease the risk of potential serious hepatotoxicity, obtain liver function tests, including total bilirubin and serum aminotransferase, prior to initiation of treatment and repeat periodically during treatment as clinically indicated. Instruct individuals to immediately contact their care team if they experience symptoms of hepatotoxicity, such as unexplained nausea, vomiting, right upper quadrant pain, fatigue, anorexia, scleral icterus, jaundice, dark urine, fever, or itching. Discontinue aprocitentan if sustained, unexplained, clinically relevant AST elevations occur or if elevations are accompanied by an increase in bilirubin of greater than 2 times the ULN, or if clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity occurs.


infertility, spermatogenesis inhibition


Aprocitentan, similar to other endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs), may be associated with spermatogenesis inhibition, a reduction in sperm counts, and impaired fertility or infertility. It is not known whether these effects on fertility are reversible. Counsel males about the potential effects on fertility.


erythema, rash


Hypersensitivity reactions (i.e., rash, erythema, allergic edema) were reported in 0.8% of aprocitentan-treated subjects compared to no reports in placebo-treated subjects in clinical trials. Allergic dermatitis requiring hospitalization was reported in one subject receiving aprocitentan 25 mg (twice the recommended dose) in clinical trials.


teratogenesis


Aprocitentan is contraindicated during pregnancy. Aprocitentan may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant person. In animal studies, macitentan (for which aprocitentan accounts for 50% or more of total exposure), demonstrates teratogenesis; effects included cardiovascular and mandibular arch fusion abnormalities. Decreased pup survival and impairment of male fertility in offspring were also reported at all dose levels tested. Persons of reproductive potential must use acceptable methods of contraception prior to aprocitentan initiation, during treatment, and for 1 month after therapy discontinuation.


Description

Aprocitentan is an oral endothelin receptor antagonist approved for the treatment of hypertension in combination with other antihypertensive medications, to lower blood pressure in adult patients who are not adequately controlled on other medications. The efficacy of aprocitentan was evaluated in a multipart, phase 3 multicenter clinical trial in adults with systolic blood pressure (SBP) of 140 mmHg or more receiving at least 3 antihypertensive medications (n = 730). Subjects received aprocitentan 12.5 mg, 25 mg, or placebo once daily. The primary endpoint was the change in sitting systolic blood pressure (SiSBP) from baseline to week 4. Aprocitentan 12.5 mg once daily was statistically superior to placebo in reducing the SiSBP (-15.4 (aprocitentan 12.5 mg) vs. -11.6 (placebo); P = 0.0043). Aprocitentan is not approved for use at the 25 mg dose, as the higher dose has not demonstrated a meaningful improvement in blood pressure reduction compared to the 12.5 mg dose and was associated with an increased risk of edema/fluid retention. Aprocitentan may cause embryo-fetal toxicity and is contraindicated in pregnancy. For patients of child-bearing potential, aprocitentan is only available through a special, restricted distribution program called the Tryvio REMS program. For persons of child-bearing potential, pregnancy testing is required before, every month during, and one month after stopping treatment. Use of acceptable contraception is required for persons of reproductive potential prior to, during, and for one month after aprocitentan therapy.

Mechanism Of Action

Aprocitentan is a dual endothelin (ET) receptor antagonist that inhibits the binding of endothelin-1 (ET-1) to ETA and ETB receptors. ET-1 is a potent vasoconstrictor that is predominately produced by vascular endothelial cells. It is also produced by vascular smooth muscle cells, cardiomyocytes, neurons, fibroblasts, macrophages, pulmonary epithelial cells, and renal epithelial cells. ET-1 mediates a variety of effects, such as vasoconstriction, fibrosis, cell proliferation, and inflammation, via interaction with ETA and ETB receptors, which are located on vascular endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells. While the interaction of ET-1 with ETA receptors is the primary mechanism for vasoconstriction, ET-1 binding to ETB2 receptors on smooth muscle cells also produces vasoconstriction. In contrast, ET-1 interaction with ETB1 receptors on endothelial cells results in vasodilation via the release of vasodilators, such as nitric oxide. In hypertension, ET-1 can cause endothelial dysfunction, vascular hypertrophy, vascular remodeling, sympathetic activation, and increased aldosterone synthesis.

Pharmacokinetics

Aprocitentan is administered orally. Aprocitentan is highly bound to plasma protein (more than 99%), mainly albumin, and has an apparent volume of distribution of approximately 20 L. Metabolism of aprocitentan occurs via N-glucosidation and non-enzymatic hydrolysis mediated by the UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzymes, UGT1A1 and UGT2B7. Approximately 52% of radioactive drug is eliminated via urine (0.2% unchanged) and 25% via feces (6.8% unchanged). Aprocitentan has a half-life of approximately 41 to 44 hours and an apparent clearance rate of 0.3 L/hour.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4. CYP2C, breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), P-glycoprotein (P-gp), UGT1A1, and UGT2B7
Aprocitentan is a substrate and inhibitor of UGT1A1 and UGT2B7; thus, concomitant administration with UGT inducers may decrease aprocitentan exposure. While aprocitentan is also a substrate of P-gp and BCRP, inhibitors of these transporters are not expected to impact its pharmacokinetics. Aprocitentan is a CYP3A4 inducer and an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C, BCRP, bile salt export pump (BSEP), and sodium taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP). Coadministration of aprocitentan with midazolam (CYP3A4 substrate), rosuvastatin (BCRP substrate), or combined oral contraceptive (ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel) did not produce any significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of either drug.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Following administration of aprocitentan 25 mg (twice the recommended dose), the mean peak concentration (Cmax) is 1.3 mcg/mL and time to reach Cmax is 4 to 5 hours. The absolute oral bioavailability of aprocitentan is unknown. Plasma concentrations increase in a dose-proportional manner with once daily dosing of aprocitentan and steady-state is reached by day 8 with approximately 3-fold accumulation. In healthy subjects, no clinically significant pharmacokinetic differences were seen following aprocitentan administration with a high-fat, high-calorie meal (approximately 150, 250, and 500 to 600 calories from protein, carbohydrate, and fat, respectively). The aprocitentan blood-to-plasma ratio is 0.63.

Hepatic Impairment

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of aprocitentan were observed with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B). The effect of severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) on aprocitentan pharmacokinetics is unknown.

Renal Impairment

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of aprocitentan were observed with mild to severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 mL/minute or greater). The effect of renal failure (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute) or dialysis on aprocitentan pharmacokinetics is unknown.

Geriatric

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of aprocitentan were observed based on age (18 to 84 years).

Gender Differences

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of aprocitentan were observed based on gender.

Ethnic Differences

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of aprocitentan were observed based on race or ethnicity.

Obesity

No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of aprocitentan were observed based on weight (44 to 196 kg).

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Swallow tablets whole. Do not crush or chew.
Administer with or without food.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time. Do not take 2 doses in the same day.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

12.5 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

12.5 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

TRYVIO 12.5mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Aprocitentan is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B or C). No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild hepatic impairment. (Child-Pugh Class A).

Renal Impairment

Aprocitentan is not recommended in patients with renal failure (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute). No dosage adjustment is required in patients with mild to severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 mL/minute or greater).
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Aprocitentan is not recommended in patients receiving dialysis.

© 2026 Elsevier