=== Abemaciclib — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 4978)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Abemaciclib is an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4 and CDK6).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Monotherapy: 200 mg PO twice daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, pulmonary embolism, stroke, thromboembolism, thrombosis, alopecia, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, nail discoloration, onycholysis, onychomadesis, pruritus, rash, dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis, sarcoidosis, conjunctivitis, fever, infection, influenza, pharyngitis, sinusitis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Reduce the dosing frequency when administering abemaciclib to patients with Child-Pugh class C hepatic impairment. Emetic risk: Moderate/High

ABEMACICLIB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

VERZENIO

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of breast cancer

For the treatment of HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced or metastatic breast cancer with disease progression following endocrine therapy and prior chemotherapy in the metastatic setting, as monotherapy
Oral dosage
Adults


200 mg PO twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. In a multicenter, open-label clinical trial, previously treated women with measurable HR-positive, HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer with progression after endocrine therapy treated with abemaciclib (n = 132) had an investigator-assessed objective response rate (ORR) of 19.7% with a median duration of 8.6 months; the ORR by independent review was 17.4% for a median duration of 7.2 months.


For the treatment of HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced or metastatic breast cancer with disease progression following endocrine therapy, in combination with fulvestrant
Oral dosage
Adults


150 mg PO twice daily, in combination with fulvestrant (500 mg IM as two 250-mg (5 mL) injections, 1 injection in each buttock (gluteal area), on days 1, 15, 29 and once monthly thereafter) until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Pre- and perimenopausal women should also be treated with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist according to current clinical practice standards. Treatment with fulvestrant plus abemaciclib significantly improved the primary endpoint of median progression-free survival (PFS) compared with fulvestrant plus placebo in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial of women with HR-positive, HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer with disease progression following adjuvant or metastatic endocrine therapy (MONARCH-2) (16.4 months vs. 9.3 months); both arms were also treated with goserelin for at least 4 weeks prior to starting and continuing for the duration of the study. The objective response rate for patients with measurable disease was 48.1% in the abemaciclib arm compared with 21.3% in the placebo arm. An interim analysis after a median follow-up of 47.7 months found that median overall survival was also significantly improved in the abemaciclib arm (46.7 months vs. 37.3 months).


For initial endocrine-based treatment of HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced or metastatic breast cancer, in combination with an aromatase inhibitor
Oral dosage
Adults


150 mg PO twice daily, plus an aromatase inhibitor at the recommended dose, until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Pre/perimenopausal women and men treated with abemaciclib plus an AI should be treated with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist according to current clinical practice standards. First-line treatment with abemaciclib plus an aromatase inhibitor significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS) compared with placebo plus an aromatase inhibitor (28.2 months vs. 14.8 months) in patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer in a phase 3 clinical trial (MONARCH3); the objective response rate for patients with measurable disease was 61% versus 45.5%, respectively. At the time of final analysis, the median overall survival time was not significantly different between arms (66.8 months vs. 53.7 months).


For the adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor (HR)-positive, HER2-negative, node-positive, early breast cancer in high-risk patients, in combination with endocrine therapy (tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitors)
Oral dosage
Adults


150 mg PO twice daily with fulvestrant, tamoxifen, or an aromatase inhibitor (AI) for 2 years or until disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity. In the clinical trial, endocrine therapy alone was continued beyond 2 years (for a total of 5 to 10 years) as clinically indicated. Pre/perimenopausal women and men treated with abemaciclib plus an AI should be treated with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist according to current clinical practice standards. A phase 3 randomized clinical trial (monarchE) found that adjuvant treatment with abemaciclib in combination with endocrine therapy (after completion of radiation and chemotherapy, if appropriate) significantly improved invasive disease-free survival (IDFS) at 2 years in patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative, node-positive, high-risk early breast cancer (85.5% vs. 78.6%); in the clinical trial, "high risk" was defined as patients with 4 or more positive axillary lymph nodes, or 1 to 3 positive axillary lymph nodes with tumor size greater than 5 cm, grade 3 histology, or Ki-67 greater than 20%. Treatment with abemaciclib plus tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor (AI) significantly improved overall survival compared with tamoxifen or an AI alone in an exploratory overall survival analysis.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Reduce the dosing frequency when administering abemaciclib to patients with Child-Pugh class C hepatic impairment. Exposure to unbound abemaciclib plus its active metabolites increased 2.4-fold in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C, n = 6) compared to those with normal hepatic function (n = 10) in a pharmacokinetic study; the mean plasma elimination half-life also increased by 2.3-fold. There is no data regarding abemaciclib dosing in patients with hepatic failure.


pulmonary disease


Use abemaciclib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease or poor pulmonary function; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease (ILD) has been reported in patients treated with abemaciclib. Advise patients to immediately report any new or worsening respiratory symptoms including hypoxia, cough, or dyspnea. Monitor patients for pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis and exclude other causes of respiratory symptoms including infection and neoplasm. An interruption of therapy or dose reduction is recommended for patients who develop persistent or recurrent grade 2 ILD/pneumonitis. Permanently discontinue abemaciclib in patients with grade 3 or 4 ILD/pneumonitis.


pregnancy


Pregnancy should be avoided during abemaciclib treatment and for 3 weeks after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled studies in people who may become pregnant, abemaciclib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. In animal studies, abemaciclib was teratogenic and caused decreased fetal weight at maternal exposures similar to human clinical exposures based on AUC at the maximum recommended human dose. In an embryo-fetal development study in pregnant rats, abemaciclib exposures approximately equal to the human exposure (AUC) at the recommended dose caused decreased fetal body weights and an increased incidence of cardiovascular and skeletal malformations and variations, including absent innominate artery and aortic arch, malpositioned subclavian artery, unossified sternebra, bipartite ossification of thoracic centrum, and rudimentary or nodulated ribs, when administered to pregnant rats during organogenesis.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel individuals about the reproductive risk associated with abemaciclib. This medication can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status in people who may become pregnant prior to treatment initiation. Advise this population to use effective contraception during treatment and for 3 weeks after the last dose. Caution people who can cause pregnancy in others that abemaciclib may cause infertility, based on animal data. Human data regarding fertility is not available.


breast-feeding


Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from abemaciclib, advise individuals to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and 3 weeks after the final dose. It is not known whether abemaciclib is present in human milk, although many drugs are excreted in human milk.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Pregnancy should be avoided during abemaciclib treatment and for 3 weeks after the last dose. Although there are no adequately controlled studies in people who may become pregnant, abemaciclib can cause fetal harm or death when administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and animal studies. In animal studies, abemaciclib was teratogenic and caused decreased fetal weight at maternal exposures similar to human clinical exposures based on AUC at the maximum recommended human dose. In an embryo-fetal development study in pregnant rats, abemaciclib exposures approximately equal to the human exposure (AUC) at the recommended dose caused decreased fetal body weights and an increased incidence of cardiovascular and skeletal malformations and variations, including absent innominate artery and aortic arch, malpositioned subclavian artery, unossified sternebra, bipartite ossification of thoracic centrum, and rudimentary or nodulated ribs, when administered to pregnant rats during organogenesis.


Interactions

Adagrasib: (Major) If coadministration with adagrasib is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If adagrasib is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of adagrasib. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) If coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of clarithromycin. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with clarithromycin increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with a multi-day regimen of aprepitant is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. When administered as a single oral or single intravenous dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak and did not result in a clinically significant increase in the AUC of a sensitive substrate. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Atazanavir: (Major) If coadministration with atazanavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If atazanavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of atazanavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) If coadministration with atazanavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If atazanavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of atazanavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients. (Major) If coadministration with cobicistat is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of cobicistat. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with avacopan is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with berotralstat is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of bexarotene with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of bosentan with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 41%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of carbamazepine with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cenobamate with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Ceritinib: (Major) If coadministration with ceritinib is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If ceritinib is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of ceritinib. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) If coadministration with chloramphenicol is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If chloramphenicol is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of chloramphenicol. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ciprofloxacin is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Clarithromycin: (Major) If coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of clarithromycin. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with clarithromycin increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Cobicistat: (Major) If coadministration with cobicistat is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of cobicistat. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Colony Stimulating Factors: (Major) Do not administer abemaciclib for at least 48 hours after the last dose of colony stimulating factors, if required. Hematologic toxicities should also be resolved to grade 2 or less prior to resuming treatment with abemaciclib.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with conivaptan is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with crizotinib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with cyclosporine is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dabrafenib with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Darunavir: (Major) If coadministration with darunavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If darunavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of darunavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) If coadministration with cobicistat is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of cobicistat. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients. (Major) If coadministration with darunavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If darunavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of darunavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) If coadministration with cobicistat is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of cobicistat. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients. (Major) If coadministration with darunavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If darunavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of darunavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with diltiazem is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with diltiazem is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 2.4-fold.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with dronedarone is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with duvelisib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of efavirenz with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 53%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of efavirenz with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 53%.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of efavirenz with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 53%.
Efbemalenograstim Alfa: (Major) Do not administer abemaciclib for at least 48 hours after the last dose of colony stimulating factors, if required. Hematologic toxicities should also be resolved to grade 2 or less prior to resuming treatment with abemaciclib.
Eflapegrastim: (Major) Do not administer abemaciclib for at least 48 hours after the last dose of colony stimulating factors, if required. Hematologic toxicities should also be resolved to grade 2 or less prior to resuming treatment with abemaciclib.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) If coadministration with cobicistat is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of cobicistat. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) If coadministration with cobicistat is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If cobicistat is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of cobicistat. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) If coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If ensitrelvir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of ensitrelvir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of enzalutamide with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with erythromycin is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of eslicarbazepine with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of etravirine with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fedratinib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fexinidazole with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Filgrastim, G-CSF: (Major) Do not administer abemaciclib for at least 48 hours after the last dose of colony stimulating factors, if required. Hematologic toxicities should also be resolved to grade 2 or less prior to resuming treatment with abemaciclib.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fluconazole is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fluoxetine is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Fluoxetine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, but its metabolite, norfluoxetine, is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fluvoxamine is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fosamprenavir is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fosphenytoin with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during abemaciclib treatment due to the risk for increased abemaciclib exposure and adverse reactions. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) If coadministration with idelalisib is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If idelalisib is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of idelalisib. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imatinib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with isavuconazonium is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Itraconazole: (Major) If coadministration with itraconazole is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If itraconazole is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of itraconazole. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abemaciclib with ketoconazole. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole is predicted to increase the AUC of abemaciclib up to 16-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) If coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of clarithromycin. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with clarithromycin increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with oral lefamulin is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with lenacapavir is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Letermovir: (Moderate) In patients receiving abemaciclib and letermovir WITHOUT concomitant cyclosporine, monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. In patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine, a dose reduction of abemaciclib is required because the magnitude of this interaction may be amplified. Reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. If letermovir and cyclosporine are discontinued, resume the original dose of abemaciclib after 3 to 5 half-lives. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, the combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abemaciclib with ketoconazole. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Ketoconazole is predicted to increase the AUC of abemaciclib up to 16-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Major) If coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If lonafarnib is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of lonafarnib. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) If coadministration with ritonavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If ritonavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of ritonavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lorlatinib with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumacaftor; ivacaftor with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) If coadministration with mifepristone is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If mifepristone is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of mifepristone. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitotane with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Modafinil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of modafinil with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and modafinil is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nafcillin with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Nefazodone: (Major) If coadministration with nefazodone is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If nefazodone is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of nefazodone. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Nelfinavir: (Major) If coadministration with nelfinavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If nelfinavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of nelfinavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with netupitant is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with nilotinib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) If coadministration with ritonavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If ritonavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of ritonavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with nirogacestat is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with fluoxetine is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Fluoxetine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, but its metabolite, norfluoxetine, is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rifabutin with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pacritinib with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Pegfilgrastim: (Major) Do not administer abemaciclib for at least 48 hours after the last dose of colony stimulating factors, if required. Hematologic toxicities should also be resolved to grade 2 or less prior to resuming treatment with abemaciclib.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pexidartinib with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phenytoin with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Posaconazole: (Major) If coadministration with posaconazole is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If posaconazole is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of posaconazole. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Relacorilant: (Major) If coadministration with relacorilant is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If relacorilant is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of relacorilant. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
Ribociclib: (Major) If coadministration with ribociclib 600 mg/day is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. If receiving ribociclib 400 mg/day or less, monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions and consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) If coadministration with ribociclib 600 mg/day is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. If receiving ribociclib 400 mg/day or less, monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions and consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rifabutin with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rifampin with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rifapentine with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with rilzabrutinib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with ritlecitinib is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) If coadministration with ritonavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If ritonavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of ritonavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Saquinavir: (Major) If coadministration with saquinavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If saquinavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of saquinavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of barbiturates with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sotorasib with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A4 inducers is predicted to decrease the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 29% to 53%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of St Johns Wort with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and St Johns Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The amount of individual constituents in various St Johns Wort products may alter the inducing effects, making drug interactions unpredictable. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Tbo-Filgrastim: (Major) Do not administer abemaciclib for at least 48 hours after the last dose of colony stimulating factors, if required. Hematologic toxicities should also be resolved to grade 2 or less prior to resuming treatment with abemaciclib.
Tipranavir: (Major) If coadministration with tipranavir is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If tipranavir is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of tipranavir. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with verapamil is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with verapamil is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6-fold.
Tucatinib: (Major) If coadministration with tucatinib is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If tucatinib is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of tucatinib. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with verapamil is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with verapamil is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) If coadministration with clarithromycin is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If clarithromycin is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of clarithromycin. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with clarithromycin increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Voriconazole: (Major) If coadministration with voriconazole is necessary, reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 100 mg PO twice daily in patients on either of the recommended starting doses of either 200 mg or 150 mg twice daily. In patients who have had already had a dose reduction to 100 mg twice daily due to adverse reactions, further reduce the dose of abemaciclib to 50 mg PO twice daily. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. If voriconazole is discontinued, increase the dose of abemaciclib to the original dose after 3 to 5 half-lives of voriconazole. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by 2.5-fold in cancer patients.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in abemaciclib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with voxelotor is necessary; consider reducing the dose of abemaciclib in 50-mg decrements if toxicities occur. Discontinue abemaciclib for patients unable to tolerate 50 mg twice daily. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with other moderate CYP3A inhibitors is predicted to increase the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 1.6- to 2.4-fold.


Adverse Reaction
diarrhea


Diarrhea occurred in 81% to 90% (grade 3, 8% to 20%) of patients treated with abemaciclib in 4 clinical trials (n = 3,691), whether administered alone or in combination with aromatase inhibitors, fulvestrant, or tamoxifen. The incidence of diarrhea was greatest during the first month of therapy, with the median time to onset between 6 and 8 days; the median duration of grade 2 diarrhea was 6 to 11 days, and the median duration of grade 3 diarrhea was 5 to 8 days. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary. Patients should be instructed to begin antidiarrheal therapy (e.g., loperamide) and increase oral fluid intake at the first sign of loose stools. Interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary.


abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting, xerostomia


Nausea occurred in 30% to 45% (grade 3, 0.5% to 2.7%) of breast cancer patients treated with abemaciclib in combination with an aromatase inhibitor, fulvestrant, or tamoxifen in 3 randomized clinical trials; these patients were either previously untreated or had only received prior endocrine therapy. The incidence was higher (64%; grade 3, 4.5%) in a smaller single-arm, open-label trial of patients with advanced breast cancer who had received 1 to 2 prior chemotherapy regimens treated with abemaciclib monotherapy. Additional gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported with abemaciclib treatment include abdominal pain (29% to 39%; grade 3, 1.2% to 2.5%), vomiting (18% to 35%; grade 3, 0.5% to 1.5%), constipation (17% or less; grade 3, 0.8% or less), stomatitis including oral ulceration and mucosal inflammation (14% to 15%; grade 3, 0.5% or less), xerostomia (14% or less), and dyspepsia (8% or less).


anorexia, weight loss


Decreased appetite/anorexia occurred in 12% to 27% (grade 3, 0.6% to 1.2%) of breast cancer patients treated with abemaciclib in combination with an aromatase inhibitor, fulvestrant, or tamoxifen in 3 randomized clinical trials; these patients were either previously untreated or had only received prior endocrine therapy. The incidence was higher (45%; grade 3, 3%) in a smaller single-arm, open-label trial of patients with advanced breast cancer who had received 1 to 2 prior chemotherapy regimens treated with abemaciclib monotherapy. Weight loss occurred in 10% to 14% (grade 3, 0.6% or less) of patients with metastatic breast cancer treated with abemaciclib in 3 clinical trials.


anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Neutropenia occurred in 37% to 46% (grade 3 or 4, 22% to 27%) of patients treated with abemaciclib, either alone or in combination with fulvestrant or an aromatase inhibitor, in clinical trials. Grade 3 or higher decreases in neutrophil counts, based on laboratory findings, was reported in 19% to 32% of abemaciclib-treated patients. The median time to first episode of grade 3 or higher neutropenia was 29 to 33 days, and the median duration was 11 to 16 days. Anemia occurred in 68% to 84% (grade 3, 2.6% or less) of patients treated with abemaciclib in clinical trials. Leukopenia, lymphopenia, and thrombocytopenia have also been reported. Decreases in laboratory values from baseline were reported with white blood cells (82% to 91%; grade 3 or 4, 13% to 28%), neutrophils (80% to 88%; grade 3 or 4, 18.7% to 32.5%), lymphocytes (42% to 63%; grade 3 or 4, 7.6% to 13.8%), and platelets (36% to 53%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9% to 2.3%). Febrile neutropenia occurred in less than 1% of patients exposed to abemaciclib; however, there were 2 deaths due to neutropenic sepsis. Monitor complete blood counts during therapy. An interruption of therapy or dose reduction may be necessary; delay treatment cycles in patients with grade 2 or higher hematologic toxicity. Patients should report any febrile episodes to their healthcare provider.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity


Hepatotoxicity has been reported in patients treated with abemaciclib in clinical trials; 2 patients with metastatic breast cancer treated with abemaciclib plus fulvestrant died secondary to hepatotoxicity. Elevated hepatic enzymes from baseline including increased ALT (30% to 48%; grade 3 or 4, 2% to 6.6%) and increased AST (31% to 37%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5% to 3.8%) were reported in clinical trials. Across 3 clinical trials (n = 3,559), the median time to onset of grade 3 or higher transaminitis ranged from 57 to 185 days, with the median time to resolution to grade 2 or less ranging from 11 to 15 days. Monitor liver function tests during abemaciclib therapy; an interruption of discontinuation of therapy may be necessary, as well as a dose reduction.


pulmonary embolism, stroke, thromboembolism, thrombosis


Venous thromboembolic events (VTE) occurred in 2% to 5% of patients treated with abemaciclib across 3 clinical trials (n = 3,559) including catheter site thrombosis, deep vein thrombosis, device-related thrombosis, hepatic vein thrombosis, inferior vena cava thrombosis, jugular vein occlusion/thrombosis, ovarian vein thrombosis, portal vein thrombosis, pelvic venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, stroke (e.g., cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, cerebral venous thrombosis, etc.), subclavian and axillary vein thrombosis, and venous thrombosis limb; deaths due to VTE have been reported. Abemaciclib has not been studied in early breast cancer patients with a history of thromboembolism. In individual clinical trials, VTE was reported in patients with early and metastatic breast cancer who received abemaciclib plus aromatase inhibitors (AI), fulvestrant, or tamoxifen at higher rates than those receiving an AI, fulvestrant, or tamoxifen without abemaciclib; VTE was not reported in a single-arm trial of metastatic breast cancer treated with abemaciclib monotherapy. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism and treat as medically appropriate. An interruption of therapy is recommended for all patients with early breast cancer experiencing a VTE, and for grade 3 or 4 VTEs in patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer.


asthenia, fatigue


Fatigue/asthenia was reported in 40% to 46% (grade 3, 2% to 2.9%) of breast cancer patients treated with abemaciclib in combination with an aromatase inhibitor, fulvestrant, or tamoxifen in 3 randomized clinical trials; these patients had not previously received chemotherapy. In another single-arm, open-label trial of patients with metastatic breast cancer who had progressed on prior endocrine therapy and 1 to 2 prior chemotherapy regimens, the incidence of fatigue/asthenia was increased (65%; grade 3, 13%).


peripheral edema


Mild (grade 1 or 2) peripheral edema was reported in 12% of metastatic breast cancer patients treated with fulvestrant plus abemaciclib compared with 7% of those receiving fulvestrant plus placebo in a randomized clinical trial.


alopecia, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, nail discoloration, onycholysis, Onychomadesis, pruritus, rash


Rash occurred in 11% to 14% (grade 3, 0.4% to 1.1%) of breast cancer patients treated with abemaciclib in randomized clinical trials, including exfoliative dermatitis, mucocutaneous rash, erythematous rash, follicular rash, maculopapular rash, maculovesicular rash, morbilliform rash, papulosquamous rash, pruritic rash, vesicular rash, and vulvovaginal rash. Pruritus (9% to 13%) and alopecia (11% to 27%) were also reported in breast cancer patients who received abemaciclib in clinical trials. In patients with early breast cancer who received abemaciclib plus an aromatase inhibitor or tamoxifen, 6% reported a nail disorder including nailbed inflammation, nail discoloration, nail dystrophy, nail pigmentation, nail ridging, onychalgia, onychoclasis, onycholysis, and onychomadesis.


dizziness, dysgeusia, headache


Headache (20%; grade 3, 0.7% or less), dysgeusia (5% to 18%), and dizziness (11% to 12%; grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less) were reported in patients treated with abemaciclib in clinical trials.


cough, dyspnea


Mild (grade 1 or 2) cough has been reported in 13% to 19% of patients with metastatic breast cancer treated with abemaciclib either alone or in combination with fulvestrant or an aromatase inhibitor (AI) in clinical trials. Dyspnea was reported in 12% (grade 3 or 4, 0.6%) of metastatic breast cancer patients treated with abemaciclib plus an AI as first line therapy.


interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis, sarcoidosis


Interstitial lung disease (ILD) or pneumonitis occurred in 3% to 3.3% (grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) of patients treated with abemaciclib in clinical trials (n = 3,691). In patients with early breast cancer, the term ILD/pneumonitis included radiation pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis, organizing pneumonia, lung opacity, and sarcoidosis. There was 1 fatality (0.1%) due to ILD/pneumonitis in an abemaciclib-treated patient with early breast cancer while fatal outcomes occurred in 0.4% of abemaciclib-treated patients with advanced breast cancer. Pulmonary fibrosis resulted in a discontinuation of therapy in 0.6% of breast cancer patients receiving abemaciclib plus an aromatase inhibitor as first-line therapy for advanced breast cancer. Additional cases of ILD/pneumonitis, including fatalities, have been observed in the postmarketing setting. Monitor patients for symptoms of ILD/pneumonitis including hypoxia, cough, dyspnea, or interstitial infiltrates on radiographic exams; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for patients who develop ILD/pneumonitis.


renal failure (unspecified)


Abemaciclib increases serum creatinine due to inhibition of renal tubular secretion in transporters, without affecting glomerular function. In clinical trials, 98% to 99% (grade 3 or 4, 0.8% to 2.2%) of patients with metastatic breast cancer experienced increased serum creatinine. These increases (mean increase, 0.2 to 0.3 mg/dL) typically occurred within the first 28 days of treatment, remained stable during the treatment period, and were reversible upon discontinuation of abemaciclib. Renal impairment (0.9%) and acute kidney injury (0.2%) were cited as reasons for discontinuation of therapy in 2 metastatic breast cancer trials (renal failure (unspecified)). Consider alternative markers of renal function which are not based on creatinine (e.g., BUN, cystatin C, or calculated GFR) to determine renal impairment during treatment.


arthralgia


Mild arthralgia occurred in 15% of metastatic breast cancer patients treated with abemaciclib in an open-label, single-arm trial.


dehydration


Dehydration occurred in 10% (grade 3, 2.3%) of patients treated with abemaciclib in an open-label, single-arm trial.


conjunctivitis, fever, infection, influenza, pharyngitis, sinusitis


Infection occurred in 31% to 51% (grade 3 or 4, 4.5% to 5.7%) of breast cancer patients treated with abemaciclib as monotherapy or in combination with an aromatase inhibitor, fulvestrant, or tamoxifen in a randomized clinical trial including upper respiratory tract infection (URI), urinary tract infection (UTI), lung infection, pharyngitis, conjunctivitis, sinusitis, vaginal infection, and sepsis. Upper respiratory infections and pharyngitis were reported in more than 1% of abemaciclib-treated patients with metastatic breast cancer in 1 study; URI, UTI, and naso-pharyngitis were reported in more than 5% of patients with early breast cancer in another study. A mild (grade 1 or 2) influenza-like illness was separately reported in 10% of advanced breast cancer patients treated with abemaciclib plus an aromatase inhibitor in 1 randomized clinical trial. Fever occurred in 11% (grade 3 or 4, 0.7% or less) of metastatic breast cancer patients treated with abemaciclib monotherapy or abemaciclib plus fulvestrant in separate clinical trials.


lacrimation


Increased lacrimation occurred in 6% of patients with early breast cancer treated with abemaciclib plus an aromatase inhibitor or tamoxifen in a randomized clinical trial.


infertility


Based on animal data, abemaciclib may cause male infertility; there is no human data regarding fertility.


Description

Abemaciclib is an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4 and CDK6). It is indicated for the treatment of early breast hormone receptor (HR)-positive, HER2-negative, node-positive, early breast cancer at high risk of recurrence in combination with an aromatase inhibitor (AI) or tamoxifen. It is also indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic HR-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer in combination with an AI; for the treatment of HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer following endocrine therapy, in combination with fulvestrant; and as monotherapy for the treatment of HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer with disease progression after endocrine therapy and prior chemotherapy in the metastatic setting. Diarrhea is the most common adverse reaction; instruct patients to begin antidiarrheal therapy at the first sign of loose stools. Neutropenia, hepatotoxicity, and thromboembolism may also occur.

Mechanism Of Action

Abemaciclib is a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) 4 and 6 inhibitor; CDK4 and CDK6 are activated upon binding to D cyclins. Cyclin D1 and CDK 4/6 promote phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma protein (Rb), cell cycle progression, and cellular proliferation in estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer cell lines. In vitro, continuous exposure to abemaciclib inhibited Rb phosphorylation and blocked progression from G1 into S phase of the cell cycle, resulting in senescence and apoptosis. In breast cancer xenograft models, abemaciclib dosed daily without interruption as a single agent or in combination with antiestrogens resulted in reduction of tumor size.

Pharmacokinetics

Abemaciclib is administered orally. It is highly bound to human plasma proteins, serum albumin, and alpha-1-acid glycoprotein independent of concentration from 152 ng/mL to 5,066 ng/mL. In a clinical study, the mean bound fraction was 96.3% (standard deviation (SD), 1.1%) for abemaciclib, 93.4% (SD, 1.3%) for M2, 96.8% (SD, 0.8%) for M18, and 97.8% (SD, 0.6%) for M20. The geometric mean systemic volume of distribution (Vd) is approximately 690.3 L (CV, 49%). In patients with advanced cancer, including breast cancer, concentrations of abemaciclib and its active metabolites (M2 and M20) in cerebrospinal fluid are comparable to unbound plasma concentrations. The geometric mean hepatic clearance of abemaciclib was 26 L/hour (CV, 51%) and the mean plasma elimination half-life was 18.3 hours (CV, 72%). Approximately 81% of a single radiolabeled 150-mg dose was recovered in feces and approximately 3% in urine; the majority of the dose eliminated in feces as metabolites.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A
Abemaciclib is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4 to N-desethylabemaciclib (M2). Additional metabolites include hydroxyabemaciclib (M20), hydroxy-N-desethylabemaciclib (M18), and an oxidative metabolite (M1). The metabolites M2, M18, and M20 are equipotent to abemaciclib, and their AUCs accounted for 25%, 13%, and 26% of the total circulating analytes in plasma, respectively. A dose reduction of abemaciclib is necessary for coadministration with most strong CYP3A4 inhibitors and may be necessary with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, depending on treatment-related toxicities. Coadministration with moderate and strong CYP3A inducers should be avoided as the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC0-INF of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites is significantly reduced.
 
Abemaciclib and its major active metabolites inhibit the renal transporters OCT2, MATE1, and MATE2-K at concentrations achievable at the approved recommended dosage. Increased serum creatine observed in clinical studies is likely due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine by OCT2, MATE1, and MATE2-K. Abemaciclib is also a substrate and inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP; the clinical consequences of these findings are unknown.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Increases in plasma exposure (AUC) and Cmax were approximately dose proportional over a range of 50 mg to 200 mg of abemaciclib administered twice daily. Steady-state was achieved within 5 days following repeated twice daily dosing, and the estimated geometric mean accumulation ratio was 2.3 (CV, 50%) and 3.2 (CV, 59%) based on Cmax and AUC, respectively. The absolute bioavailability (F) of abemaciclib after a single 200-mg dose is 45% (CV, 19%). The median Tmax is 8 hours (range, 4.1 to 24 hours). A high-fat, high calorie meal (approximately 800 to 1,000 calories with 150 calories from protein, 250 calories from carbohydrate, and 500 to 600 calories from fat) administered to healthy subjects increased the AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites by 9% and increased Cmax by 26%.

Hepatic Impairment

Exposure to unbound abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, M20) in plasma increased by 1.2-fold in subjects with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A; n = 9), 1.1-fold in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B; n = 10), and 2.4-fold in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C; n = 6) compared to subjects with normal hepatic function (n = 10). In subjects with severe hepatic impairment, the mean plasma elimination half-life of abemaciclib increased to 55 hours compared to 24 hours in subjects with normal hepatic function.

Renal Impairment

Mild (CrCL 60 to 90 mL/minute) and moderate (CrCL 30 to 60 mL/minute) renal impairment did not affect abemaciclib exposure in a population pharmacokinetic analysis (n = 990). The effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of abemaciclib is unknown.

Pediatrics

In an open-label, dose-finding study, abemaciclib exposure in pediatric patients (n = 43; aged 1 year to younger than 17 years) with relapsed or refractory solid tumors was within the range of values previously observed in adults given a similar dose per body surface area.

Geriatric

Age (range, 24 to 91 years) did not affect abemaciclib exposure in a population pharmacokinetic analysis in patients with cancer.

Gender Differences

Gender did not affect abemaciclib exposure in a population pharmacokinetic analysis in patients with cancer.

Obesity

Body weight did not affect abemaciclib exposure in a population pharmacokinetic analysis in patients with cancer.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Moderate/High
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.


Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Abemaciclib may be taken with or without food.
Instruct patients to take abemaciclib at approximately the same times every day.
Patients should swallow tablets whole; do not chew, crush, or split tablets. Instruct patients not to take abemaciclib tablets that have been broken, cracked, or are not otherwise intact.
If the patient vomits or misses a dose, do not administer an additional dose. The patient should take the next dose at its scheduled time.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Monotherapy: 200 mg PO twice daily.
Combination with fulvestrant or an aromatase inhibitor: 150 mg PO twice daily.

Geriatric

Monotherapy: 200 mg PO twice daily.
Combination with fulvestrant or an aromatase inhibitor: 150 mg PO twice daily.

Dosage Forms

Verzenio 100mg Tablet

Verzenio 100mg Tablet (Sample)

Verzenio 150mg Tablet

Verzenio 150mg Tablet (Sample)

Verzenio 200mg Tablet

VERZENIO 50mg Tablet

Verzenio 50mg Tablet (Sample)

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Baseline Hepatic Impairment:
Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B): No dosage adjustments are necessary.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Reduce the frequency of abemaciclib dosing to once daily.
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity:
Grade 1 (AST/ALT 1.1 to 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN)), without an increase in total bilirubin above 2 times ULN: No dosage adjustments are necessary.
Grade 2 (AST/ALT 3.1 to 5 times ULN), WITHOUT an increase in total bilirubin above 2 times ULN, first occurrence: No dosage adjustments are necessary. If grade 2 hepatotoxicity persists, hold abemaciclib. Upon resolution to baseline or grade 1, resume abemaciclib at the next lower dose level.
Persistent or recurrent Grade 2 (AST/ALT 3.1 to 5 times ULN), or Grade 3 (AST/ALT 5.1 to 20 times ULN), WITHOUT an increase in total bilirubin above 2 times ULN: Hold abemaciclib. Upon resolution to baseline or grade 1, resume abemaciclib at the next lower dose level.
Grade 2 or 3 (AST/ALT 3.1 to 20 times ULN) WITH total bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN, in the absence of cholestasis: Discontinue abemaciclib.
Grade 4 (AST/ALT greater than 20 times ULN): Discontinue abemaciclib.


Renal Impairment

Baseline Renal Impairment:
Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCL greater than or equal to 30 mL/min): No dosage adjustment necessary.
Severe renal impairment, end-stage renal disease, or dialysis: Specific guidelines are not available. The pharmacokinetics of abemaciclib in these patients is unknown.


© 2026 Elsevier