=== Sodium Sulfate/Magnesium Sulfate/Potassium Chloride (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5288)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Sodium sulfate;

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 24 tablets PO per bowel evacuation.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): peptic ulcer, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, dyspnea, pruritus, rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. GI obstruction, inflammatory bowel disease, intestinal perforation, toxic megacolon Sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride is contraindicated in people with GI...

Brand Names
  - SUTAB

Dosage Forms
  - SUTAB 1.479g-0.225g-0.188g Tablet
  - SUTAB 1.479g-0.225g-0.188g Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Evening before the colonoscopy: 12 tablets PO along with 16 oz of water (use provided container to measure), ingested over 15 to 20 minutes. Approximately 1 hour after the last tablet is ingested, the patient must drink another 16 oz of water over 30 minutes. Approximately 30 minutes after finishing the second container of water, the patient must drink another 16 oz of water over 30 minutes. On the day of colonoscopy (5 to 8 hours before the procedure and no sooner than 4 hours from starting Dose 1): 12 tablets PO along with 16 oz of water, ingested over 15 to 20 minutes. Repeat the same process as the day before for subsequent water intake. Consumption should be complete at least 2 hours before the colonoscopy.
    Heading
    For use as a bowel evacuant to clean the colon prior to colonoscopy (bowel preparation)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    GI obstruction, inflammatory bowel disease, intestinal perforation, toxic megacolon
    General Information
    Sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride is contraindicated in people with GI obstruction or ileus, bowel or intestinal perforation, gastric retention (e.g., gastroparesis, pyloric stenosis), or toxic megacolon/colitis. If GI obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering a bowel cleansing agent. In addition, the administration of osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations. There have been reports of serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization; the concurrent use of stimulant laxatives may increase these risks. Use with caution in people with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including severe active ulcerative colitis. When interpreting colonoscopic findings in IBD patients, consider the potential for mucosal ulcerations caused by the bowel preparation.
    Headline
    electrolyte imbalance
    General Information
    Before administering sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride, correct pre-existing fluid and/or electrolyte imbalance (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia), as fluid and electrolyte disturbances may lead to serious adverse events such as heart arrhythmias, convulsions, or renal dysfunction. Use with caution in people with conditions that may increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances, including taking certain concurrent medications that affect fluid and electrolyte balance. Advise patients to properly hydrate before, during, and after the bowel cleansing regimen. Instruct patients on the proper administration to ensure safe and effective bowel cleansing. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN).
    Headline
    cardiac arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, myocardial infarction, QT prolongation, unstable angina
    General Information
    Use sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride with caution in patients at an increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias. Serious cardiac arrhythmias have been reported after bowel preparation with ionic osmotic laxative products. Patients at increased risk of arrhythmias include patients with QT prolongation, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy. Consider pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available data on sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride use during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate.
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Use sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride with caution in people with a history of seizures, a seizure disorder, or at an increased risk for seizures. Patients taking concomitant medications that lower the seizure threshold, patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia may be at an increased risk. There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizure disorder. The seizures were associated with electrolyte abnormalities including hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolality. After the correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, neurologic abnormalities resolved.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    There are no data available on the presence of sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride in human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparations in people with renal impairment or renal failure (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). These people may be at risk for renal injury. Advise these individuals of the importance of adequate hydration with this bowel preparation regimen and consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN).

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no available data on sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride use during human pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    There are no data available on the presence of sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride in human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Minor) Diuretics may interfere with the kidneys ability to regulate magnesium concentrations. Long-term use of diuretics may impair the magnesium-conserving ability of the kidneys and lead to hypomagnesemia.
Alendronate: (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and magnesium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Magnesium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia. (Moderate) Separate administration of alendronate and magnesium-containing supplements by at least 30 minutes. Magnesium will interfere with the absorption of alendronate.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and aliskiren are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
aMILoride: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with amiloride is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and magnesium may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Atropine: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as atropine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) Drugs that decrease GI motility, like diphenoxylate/difenoxin, may increase the risk of GI irritation from sustained-release solid oral dosage forms of potassium salts. Immediate release potassium formulations may be preferred in patients requiring diphenoxylate/difenoxin therapy. (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as atropine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations if potassium and baxdrostat are used together. Both medications increase serum potassium concentrations and concomitant use may increase the risk for hyperkalemia.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as belladonna, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as hyoscyamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as benztropine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Administer bictegravir at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking oral medications containing magnesium. Routine administration of bictegravir simultaneously with, or 2 hours after, oral medications containing magnesium is not recommended as the bioavailability of bictegravir may be reduced.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Administer bictegravir at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after taking oral medications containing magnesium. Routine administration of bictegravir simultaneously with, or 2 hours after, oral medications containing magnesium is not recommended as the bioavailability of bictegravir may be reduced.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Glycopyrrolate oral solution is contraindicated with concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Glycopyrrolate orally disintegrating tablets are not recommended for use with solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride. Use other glycopyrrolate dosage forms with solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Calcifediol: (Major) Avoid vitamin D analog coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia.
Calcitriol: (Major) Avoid vitamin D analog coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Captopril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: (Minor) Diuretics may interfere with the kidneys ability to regulate magnesium concentrations. Long-term use of diuretics may impair the magnesium-conserving ability of the kidneys and lead to hypomagnesemia.
Cefdinir: (Moderate) Administer cefdinir at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after magnesium sulfate. Cefdinir absorption may be reduced.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as clidinium bromide, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Administer oral ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after oral products that contain magnesium. Ciprofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and magnesium may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Cod Liver Oil: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and cyclosporine are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Delafloxacin: (Major) Administer oral delafloxacin at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after oral products that contain magnesium. Delafloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain magnesium.
Demeclocycline: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as dicyclomine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Digoxin: (Minor) Potassium levels should be monitored closely in patients receiving digoxin and potassium supplementation. Both hypokalemia and hyperkalemia increase the risk of digoxin toxicity. Some patients at increased risk are patients with renal impairment, patients on diuretics, and patients who are on potassium-sparing medications concurrently. Monitor renal function, potassium concentrations, and digoxin concentrations and clinical response during concurrent treatment.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) Drugs that decrease GI motility, like diphenoxylate/difenoxin, may increase the risk of GI irritation from sustained-release solid oral dosage forms of potassium salts. Immediate release potassium formulations may be preferred in patients requiring diphenoxylate/difenoxin therapy. (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as atropine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Doxercalciferol: (Major) Avoid vitamin D analog coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia.
Doxycycline: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and drospirenone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia in high-risk patients, comparable to 25 mg of spironolactone.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and drospirenone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia in high-risk patients, comparable to 25 mg of spironolactone.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and drospirenone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia in high-risk patients, comparable to 25 mg of spironolactone.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and drospirenone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia in high-risk patients, comparable to 25 mg of spironolactone.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and drospirenone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Drospirenone has anti-mineralocorticoid activity, including the potential for hyperkalemia in high-risk patients, comparable to 25 mg of spironolactone.
Edetate Calcium Disodium, Calcium EDTA: (Major) Administration of oral magnesium with edetate disodium, disodium EDTA may result in binding of magnesium. Do not administer oral magnesium salts within 1 hour of edetate disodium, EDTA.
Eltrombopag: (Major) Eltrombopag chelates polyvalent cations (e.g., calcium, aluminum, and magnesium) in food, mineral supplements, and antacids. In a clinical study, systemic exposure to eltrombopag was decreased by 70% when it was administered with a polyvalent cation-containing antacid. Administer eltrombopag at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after any oral products containing polyvalent cations, such as aluminum salts, (like aluminum hydroxide), calcium salts, (including calcium carbonate), and magnesium salts.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Eplerenone: (Contraindicated) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving eplerenone for the treatment of hypertension is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Minimize the risk of hyperkalemia with proper patient selection and monitoring.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and finerenone are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as flavoxate, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Administer oral products that contain magnesium at least 3 hours before or 2 hours after gemifloxacin. Gemifloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain magnesium.
Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Glycopyrrolate oral solution is contraindicated with concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Glycopyrrolate orally disintegrating tablets are not recommended for use with solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride. Use other glycopyrrolate dosage forms with solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Glycopyrrolate oral solution is contraindicated with concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Glycopyrrolate orally disintegrating tablets are not recommended for use with solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride. Use other glycopyrrolate dosage forms with solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as homatropine hydrobromide, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as hyoscyamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as hyoscyamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Ibandronate: (Moderate) Magnesium-containing products may significantly reduce the absorption of ibandronate. All medications should be administered at least 60 minutes after an ibandronate dose to help prevent these absorption interactions. However, some recommend that divalent cation-containing products should preferentially be taken at least 2 hours after ibandronate or at a completely different time of day.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Phosphate may bind magnesium salts and magnesium-containing antacids (e.g., magnesium carbonate, magnesium hydroxide) may limit phosphorus absorption or phosphorus may limit magnesium absorption. If the patient requires magnesium supplements or a magnesium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphates from magnesium-containing products.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Lactulose: (Major) In general, other laxatives, such as magnesium sulfate, should not be used concurrently with lactulose, especially during the initial phase of therapy for portal-systemic encephalopathy, because the loose stools resulting from their use may falsely suggest that adequate lactulose dosage has been achieved.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Administer oral products that contain magnesium at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after orally administered levofloxacin. Levofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Chelation of divalent cations with levofloxacin is less than with other quinolones.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids, dietary supplements, or other drugs containing magnesium. Magnesium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of levothyroxine with products containing oral cations, such as antacids or dietary supplements.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids, dietary supplements, or other drugs containing magnesium. Magnesium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of levothyroxine with products containing oral cations, such as antacids or dietary supplements.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids, dietary supplements, or other drugs containing magnesium. Magnesium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of levothyroxine with products containing oral cations, such as antacids or dietary supplements.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Losartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Mannitol: (Moderate) Diuretics may interfere with the kidneys ability to regulate magnesium concentrations. Long-term use of diuretics may impair the magnesium-conserving ability of the kidneys and lead to hypomagnesemia.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
methazolAMIDE: (Minor) Diuretics may interfere with the kidneys ability to regulate magnesium concentrations. Long-term use of diuretics may impair the magnesium-conserving ability of the kidneys and lead to hypomagnesemia.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as hyoscyamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as methscopolamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Minocycline: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Administer oral moxifloxacin at least 4 hours before or 8 hours after oral products that contain magnesium. Moxifloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. Examples of compounds that may interfere with quinolone bioavailability include antacids and multivitamins that contain magnesium.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Glycopyrrolate oral solution is contraindicated with concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Glycopyrrolate orally disintegrating tablets are not recommended for use with solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride. Use other glycopyrrolate dosage forms with solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and magnesium may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
NIFEdipine: (Major) Clinically significant drug interactions including neuromuscular blockade and hypotension have occurred when IV magnesium salts were given concurrently with nifedipine during the treatment of hypertension or premature labor during pregnancy. The effects have been attributed to nifedipine potentiation of the neuromuscular blocking effects of magnesium. It is recommended that nifedipine not be given concurrently with magnesium therapy for pre-eclampsia, hypertension, or tocolytic treatment during pregnancy.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Administer oral products that contain magnesium at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after ofloxacin. Ofloxacin absorption may be reduced as quinolone antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Omadacycline: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as oxybutynin, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Paricalcitol: (Major) Avoid vitamin D analog coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia.
Penicillin G: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and high doses of penicillin G potassium are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk for hyperkalemia. Penicillin G potassium contains 1.7 mEq of potassium per million units of penicillin G activity.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as atropine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa. (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as hyoscyamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa. (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as scopolamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Phosphorated Carbohydrate Solution: (Moderate) Phosphate may bind magnesium salts and magnesium-containing antacids (e.g., magnesium carbonate, magnesium hydroxide) may limit phosphorus absorption or phosphorus may limit magnesium absorption. If the patient requires magnesium supplements or a magnesium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphates from magnesium-containing products.
Phosphorus: (Moderate) Phosphate may bind magnesium salts and magnesium-containing antacids (e.g., magnesium carbonate, magnesium hydroxide) may limit phosphorus absorption or phosphorus may limit magnesium absorption. If the patient requires magnesium supplements or a magnesium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphates from magnesium-containing products.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Polycarbophil: (Moderate) Oral calcium-containing medications, such as calcium polycarbophil, may increase serum calcium or magnesium concentrations in susceptible patients, primarily in patients with renal insufficiency. Calcium and magnesium salts are often combined together in nutritional supplements and vitamin products. Each 625 mg of calcium polycarbophil contains a substantial amount of calcium (approximately 125 mg).
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) Phosphate may bind magnesium salts and magnesium-containing antacids (e.g., magnesium carbonate, magnesium hydroxide) may limit phosphorus absorption or phosphorus may limit magnesium absorption. If the patient requires magnesium supplements or a magnesium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphates from magnesium-containing products.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) Phosphate may bind magnesium salts and magnesium-containing antacids (e.g., magnesium carbonate, magnesium hydroxide) may limit phosphorus absorption or phosphorus may limit magnesium absorption. If the patient requires magnesium supplements or a magnesium-containing antacid, it may be wise to separate the administration of phosphates from magnesium-containing products.
pyRIDostigmine: (Moderate) Magnesium salts may enhance the neuromuscular blockade and may interfere with the restoration of neuromuscular function. Consider the possibility of enhanced neuromuscular blockade from magnesium salts during pyridostigmine administration.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Ramipril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Risedronate: (Moderate) Oral magnesium may significantly reduce the absorption of the oral bisphosphonates (e.g., risedronate). All medications should be administered at least 30 minutes after a risedronate dose to help prevent these absorption interactions. Some recommend that divalent cation-containing products should preferentially be taken at least 2 hours after oral bisphosphonates or at a completely different time of day.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and magnesium may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Sarecycline: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as scopolamine, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Sodium Fluoride: (Major) Absorption of sodium fluoride may be reduced by concomitant use of magnesium supplements or antacids that contain magnesium. An interval of at least 2 hours is advisable between administration of sodium fluoride and magnesium salts.
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate: (Contraindicated) Sodium polystyrene sulfonate is indicated for the treatment of hyperkalemia. Administration of all potassium salts should be discontinued whenever therapy with sodium polystyrene sulfonate is indicated.
Sparsentan: (Moderate) Monitor potassium during concomitant use of sparsentan and potassium. Concomitant use increases the risk for hyperkalemia.
Spironolactone: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving spironolactone may increase the risk for hyperkalemia. Potassium supplements should generally be avoided in heart failure patients receiving spironolactone. Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if concomitant use is necessary.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients receiving spironolactone may increase the risk for hyperkalemia. Potassium supplements should generally be avoided in heart failure patients receiving spironolactone. Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if concomitant use is necessary.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and magnesium may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Major) Administration of oral magnesium with edetate disodium, disodium EDTA may result in binding of magnesium. Do not administer oral magnesium salts within 1 hour of edetate disodium, EDTA.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and trimethoprim are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and tacrolimus are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Tetracycline: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Tetracyclines: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Administer thyroid hormones at least 4 hours before or after antacids, dietary supplements, or other drugs containing magnesium. Magnesium salts have been reported to chelate oral thyroid hormones within the GI tract when administered simultaneously, leading to decreased thyroid hormone absorption. Some case reports have described clinical hypothyroidism resulting from coadministration of levothyroxine with products containing oral cations, such as antacids or dietary supplements.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. (Moderate) Use caution when prescribing sulfate salt bowel preparation in patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors).
Triamterene: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with triamterene is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) The use of potassium supplements in patients treated with triamterene is generally contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If potassium supplementation is used, monitor serum potassium concentrations closely.
Trientine: (Major) In general, oral mineral supplements should not be given since they may block the oral absorption of trientine. However, iron deficiency may develop, especially in children and menstruating or pregnant women, or as a result of the low copper diet recommended for Wilson's disease. If necessary, iron may be given in short courses, but since iron and trientine each inhibit oral absorption of the other, 2 hours should elapse between administration of trientine and iron doses.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Use anticholinergics, such as trihexyphenidyl, and concomitant solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride with caution due to risk for gastrointestinal mucosal injury. Anticholinergics may decrease gastric motility and increase the transit time of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa.
Trimethoprim: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and trimethoprim are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium concentrations closely if potassium supplements and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are used together. Concomitant use may increase the risk of hyperkalemia.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and magnesium may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Vitamin D analogs: (Major) Avoid vitamin D analog coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia.
Vitamin D: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia.
Vitamin D: (Major) Avoid vitamin D coadministration with magnesium-containing products, such as antacids, in persons on chronic hemodialysis due to the risk for hypermagnesemia.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    fecal incontinence, fecal urgency
    General Information
    Diarrhea or increased stool frequency are expected effects after the administration of sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride and fecal urgency or fecal incontinence may occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fecal incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fecal urgency
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    abdominal pain, gastritis, nausea, peptic ulcer, vomiting
    General Information
    In a randomized clinical trial of adult patients comparing the safety of sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride to a product containing polyethylene glycol 3350 with electrolytes and ascorbic acid, the following gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events were reported: nausea (48% vs. 26%), abdominal distention (29% vs. 22%), vomiting (23% vs. 5%), and upper abdominal pain (16% vs. 18%). In a separate randomized clinical trial of adult patients comparing the safety of sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride to another product (sodium picosulfate, magnesium oxide, and anhydrous citric acid), the following GI adverse events were reported: nausea (52% vs. 18%), abdominal distention (34% vs. 15%), vomiting (16% vs. 2%), and upper abdominal pain (23% vs. 13%). Postmarketing, gastric peptic ulcer and gastritis have been reported. In addition, postmarketing cases of patients ingesting the package desiccant along with the tablets have been reported and may be associated with risk of GI complications and/or choking.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peptic ulcer
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    bowel ischemia, colitis
    General Information
    Administration of osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of serious cases of ischemic colitis (bowel ischemia) requiring hospitalization with the use of these products. Use sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride with caution in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) including severe active ulcerative colitis. When interpreting colonoscopic findings in IBD patients, consider the potential for mucosal ulcerations caused by the bowel preparation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bowel ischemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dehydration, hypermagnesemia
    General Information
    Like other osmotic bowel preparation products, sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride can cause fluid loss, dehydration, renal impairment, and electrolyte abnormalities, especially if patients become dehydrated. Hypermagnesemia was reported in 2% of patients receiving magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate oral tablets vs. 2% of patients receiving a product containing sodium picosulfate, magnesium oxide, and anhydrous citric acid. Shifts in magnesium from normal at baseline to above the upper end of normal following magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate oral tablets on the day of colonoscopy occurred in 27% vs. only 5% of patients receiving another product (polyethylene glycol 3350 with electrolytes and ascorbic acid). Laboratory shifts in serum osmolality occurred in 44% of patients receiving magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate oral tablets vs. 28% of patients receiving the product containing sodium picosulfate, magnesium oxide, and anhydrous citric acid. These changes were transient and resolved without intervention. Renal injury is not common during use of this product; ensuring proper hydration helps reduce the risk. Decreases in creatinine clearance and increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) were reported in less than 1% of patients in both sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride and comparator arms in both trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypermagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation
    General Information
    Like other osmotic bowel preparation products, sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride can cause fluid and electrolyte disturbances that can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias. Serious cardiac arrhythmias have been reported after bowel preparation with ionic osmotic laxative products. The use of sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride may cause arrhythmia exacerbation in patients at an increased risk of arrhythmias.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizure disorder.     Seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities, including hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and low serum osmolality. After the correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, neurologic abnormalities resolved.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Transient elevated hepatic enzymes (including ALT, AST and bilirubin) were reported in 3% of patients receiving sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride vs. 1% of patients receiving a product containing sodium picosulfate, magnesium oxide, and anhydrous citric acid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, angioedema, dyspnea, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis (anaphylactic shock), angioedema, dyspnea, rash, pruritus, and urticaria have been reported with use of sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Sodium sulfate; Magnesium sulfate; Potassium chloride is an osmotic laxative product used for bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy in adults. It contains poorly absorbed sulfate ions that cause water to be retained in the GI tract. The ions and ingested water flush the bowel and produce a purgative effect. The product is administered as a 2-dose regimen prior to colonoscopy with one dose given the evening before colonoscopy and the second dose given the day of colonoscopy. In 2 clinical trials, 92% of patients achieved successful bowel cleansing with this product and 92% to 95% of patients achieved successful cleansing in all segments of the colon, including the proximal colon. In another clinical trial, 91% of patients rated this product as very easy to tolerate and consume compared to an oral bowel preparation solution. In most patients, proper use of this product did not induce significant fluid and electrolyte shifts. The FDA approved this bowel preparation regimen in November 2020.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The primary mechanism of action of sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride is an osmotic action of sodium sulfate and magnesium sulfate, which induces a laxative effect. The physiological consequence is increased water retention in the lumen of the colon, resulting in loose stools and bowel evacuation.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration, sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride oral tablets are poorly absorbed; the majority of the dose remains within the GI tract until the time of rectal elimination.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The disposition of sulfate after ingestion of a sulfate-based product containing sodium sulfate, potassium sulfate, and magnesium sulfate similar to SUTAB was also studied in 6 patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh grades A and B), the AUC and Cmax of serum sulfate were comparable between healthy subjects and patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Similar to heathy subjects, serum sulfate concentrations in patients with hepatic impairment returned to baseline by Day 6 after dose initiation. Urinary excretion of sulfate over 30 hours, starting after the first half dose, was also similar between healthy subjects and the patients with hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The disposition of sulfate after ingestion of a sulfate-based product containing sodium sulfate, potassium sulfate, and magnesium sulfate similar to SUTAB was studied in 6 patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 49 mL/minute), the mean AUC and Cmax were 54% and 44%, respectively higher than those of healthy subjects. Similar to healthy subjects, serum sulfate concentrations in the patients with renal impairment returned to baseline by Day 6 after dose initiation. Urinary excretion of sulfate over 30 hours, starting after the first half dose, was approximately 16% lower in patients with moderate renal impairment than in healthy subjects.
  Text
  Sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride is administered orally. Fecal excretion is the primary route of sulfate elimination. After oral administration the median serum sulfate concentration increased by about 2.5-fold at 5 to 8 hours post Dose 2 (0.61 mmol/L) compared to baseline (0.25 mmol/L) and returned to baseline by 24 to 48 hours after colonoscopy.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      General Administration Information for Oral tablets for Bowel Preparation (SUTAB product)
For oral use only.
Two doses of sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride (total of 24 tablets) are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy.
The product is supplied as 2 bottles each containing 12 tablets. Twelve tablets are equivalent to 1 dose.
The patient must consume 473 mL (16 ounces) of water with each dose and an additional 946 mL (32 ounces) of water must be consumed after each dose as directed.
Patients should be adequately hydrated before, during, and after treatment with clear liquids to prevent excessive fluid loss and hypovolemia.
The patient must not drink milk or eat or drink anything colored red or purple.
Inform the patient to not drink alcohol.
Inform the patient not to take other laxatives while taking sodium sulfate; magnesium sulfate; potassium chloride.
Do not give the patient other oral medications within 1 hour before or after starting each dose.
Stop consumption of all fluids at least 2 hours prior to colonoscopy.
 
Bowel Preparation Schedule
On the day before the colonoscopy:
A low residue breakfast may be consumed. Examples of low residue foods are eggs, white bread, cottage cheese, yogurt, grits, coffee, tea. After breakfast, only clear liquids may be consumed until after the colonoscopy. Examples of clear liquids are coffee or tea (no cream or non-dairy creamer), fruit juices (without pulp), gelatin desserts (no fruit or topping), water, chicken broth, clear soda (such as gingerale).
Day 1, Dose 1- On the evening prior to the colonoscopy:
Early in the evening prior to the colonoscopy, open 1 bottle of 12 tablets. Remove and discard the desiccant. Remove and discard the desiccant from the second bottle and close the bottle. Use the second bottle for the second dose on the morning of the colonoscopy.
Use the provided container and measure water up to the fill line for 16 ounces of water. Swallow 1 tablet at a time with a sip of water. Finish taking the 12 tablets along with the entire 16 ounces of water (473 mL) within 15 to 20 minutes.
Approximately 1 hour after the last tablet is ingested, fill the provided container a second time with 16 ounces of water (up to the fill line) and drink the entire amount over 30 minutes.
Approximately 30 minutes after finishing the second container of water, fill the provided container again with 16 ounces of water and drink the entire amount over 30 minutes.
If patient experiences preparation-related symptoms (e.g., nausea, bloating, cramping), pause or slow the rate of drinking the additional water until symptoms diminish.
Day 2, Dose 2- The morning of the colonoscopy (5 to 8 hours prior to the colonoscopy and no sooner than 4 hours from starting Dose 1):
Continue to consume only clear liquids until after the colonoscopy.
Repeat Step 2 to Step 4 from Day 1, Dose 1.
If patients experience preparation-related symptoms (e.g., nausea, bloating, cramping), pause or slow the rate of drinking the additional water until symptoms diminish.
Complete taking all tablets and water at least 2 hours prior to colonoscopy.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    24 tablets PO per bowel evacuation.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    24 tablets PO per bowel evacuation.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; the manufacturer recommends using with caution in these patients. Ensure adequate hydration in patients with renal impairment.
