=== Mavacamten (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5400)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Mavacamten is an oral cardiac myosin inhibitor indicated for the treatment of symptomatic New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II to III obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy to improve functional capacity and symptoms.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 15 mg/day PO.

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Mavacamten reduces systolic contraction and can cause heart failure or significantly reduce ventricular function. People who experience a serious intercurrent illness (e.g., serious infection) or cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., atrial fibrillation or other uncontrolled tachyarrhythmia) are at greater...

Brand Names
  - CAMZYOS

Dosage Forms
  - CAMZYOS 10mg Capsule
  - CAMZYOS 15mg Capsule
  - CAMZYOS 2.5mg Capsule
  - CAMZYOS 5mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        5 mg PO once daily, initially. Adjust dose every 4 weeks during initiation phase and every 12 weeks during maintenance phase as needed based on patient clinical status and echocardiographic assessment of patient response. Dose range: 2.5 to 15 mg/day. Interrupt treatment if left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) is less than 50% at any time. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of symptomatic New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II to III hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy to improve functional capacity and symptoms

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    cardiac arrhythmias, heart failure, infection
    General Information
    Mavacamten reduces systolic contraction and can cause heart failure or significantly reduce ventricular function. People who experience a serious intercurrent illness (e.g., serious infection) or cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., atrial fibrillation or other uncontrolled tachyarrhythmia) are at greater risk of developing systolic dysfunction and heart failure. Assess an individual's clinical status and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) prior to and regularly during mavacamten therapy and adjust the mavacamten dose accordingly. Regular LVEF and Valsalva left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) gradient assessment is required for careful titration to achieve an appropriate target Valsalva LVOT gradient, while maintaining LVEF of 50% or more and avoiding heart failure symptoms. Consider assessing post-exercise LVOT gradient in symptomatic individuals with normal or near normal Valsalva gradients (approximately 30 mmHg) prior to initiating treatment with mavacamten. Initiation or up-titration of mavacamten in people with LVEF less than 55% is not recommended. Interrupt treatment if LVEF is less than 50% or if an individual experiences heart failure symptoms or worsening clinical status while taking mavacamten and promptly evaluate cardiac function. New or worsening arrhythmia, dyspnea, chest pain, fatigue, palpitations, leg edema, or elevations in N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) may be signs or symptoms of heart failure. Concomitant administration of mavacamten with certain medications (e.g., beta-blockers, disopyramide, ranolazine, CYP2C19 inhibitors, and CYP3A inhibitors) may increase the risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction or heart failure. Delay dose increases when there is intercurrent illness (e.g., serious infection) or arrhythmia (e.g., atrial fibrillation or other uncontrolled tachyarrhythmia) that may impair systolic function. Consider interruption of mavacamten therapy in individuals with intercurrent illness.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Mavacamten may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. There are no human data on the use of mavacamten during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, mavacamten-related decreases in mean fetal body weight, reductions in fetal ossification of bones, and increases in post-implantation loss (early and/or late resorptions) were observed in rats and increases in visceral and skeletal malformations were observed in both rabbits and rats at dose exposures similar to that achieved at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). Clinical practice guidelines list mavacamten as contraindicated during pregnancy due to the potential for teratogenic effects. Healthcare providers should report exposure if mavacamten is administered during pregnancy, or if an individual becomes pregnant while taking mavacamten or within 4 months after the last dose by contacting Bristol-Myers Squibb at www.bms.com or by telephone at 1-800-721-5072.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with mavacamten. Mavacamten may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking mavacamten and for 4 months after the last dose. Combined hormonal contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone may be used with mavacamten. However, mavacamten may reduce the effectiveness of certain other combined hormonal contraceptives. If these other combined hormonal contraceptives are used, advise people who may become pregnant to add nonhormonal contraception (e.g., condoms) or use an alternative contraceptive method that is not affected by CYP450 enzyme induction (e.g., intrauterine system).
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use mavacamten with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of mavacamten in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Mavacamten may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. There are no human data on the use of mavacamten during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal studies, mavacamten-related decreases in mean fetal body weight, reductions in fetal ossification of bones, and increases in post-implantation loss (early and/or late resorptions) were observed in rats and increases in visceral and skeletal malformations were observed in both rabbits and rats at dose exposures similar to that achieved at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). Clinical practice guidelines list mavacamten as contraindicated during pregnancy due to the potential for teratogenic effects. Healthcare providers should report exposure if mavacamten is administered during pregnancy, or if an individual becomes pregnant while taking mavacamten or within 4 months after the last dose by contacting Bristol-Myers Squibb at www.bms.com or by telephone at 1-800-721-5072.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use mavacamten with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of mavacamten in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the underlying maternal medical condition.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Adagrasib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting adagrasib therapy. Avoid initiation of adagrasib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable adagrasib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a weak CYP3A inducer like mavacamten with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and mavacamten. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Amobarbital: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting clarithromycin therapy. Avoid initiation of clarithromycin in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable clarithromycin therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers. (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting omeprazole therapy. Avoid initiation of omeprazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable omeprazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use of mavacamten 10 mg with omeprazole 20 mg once daily increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48% with no effect on peak exposure in healthy CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers.
Apalutamide: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with apalutamide due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP2C19 and CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use with a strong CYP2C19 or CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting aprepitant/fosaprepitant therapy. Avoid initiation of aprepitant/fosaprepitant in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable aprepitant/fosaprepitant therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Armodafinil: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting armodafinil therapy. Avoid initiation of armodafinil in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable armodafinil therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and armodafinil is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting omeprazole therapy. Avoid initiation of omeprazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable omeprazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use of mavacamten 10 mg with omeprazole 20 mg once daily increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48% with no effect on peak exposure in healthy CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting atazanavir therapy. Avoid initiation of atazanavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable atazanavir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting atazanavir therapy. Avoid initiation of atazanavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable atazanavir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers. (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting cobicistat therapy. Avoid initiation of cobicistat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable cobicistat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with mavacamten is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Avacopan: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting avacopan therapy. Avoid initiation of avacopan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable avacopan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with mavacamten is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Barbiturates: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Berotralstat: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting berotralstat therapy. Avoid initiation of berotralstat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable berotralstat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a weak CYP2C19 and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Bexarotene: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with bexarotene due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting lenacapavir therapy. Avoid initiation of lenacapavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable lenacapavir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Bortezomib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting bortezomib therapy. Avoid initiation of bortezomib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable bortezomib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and bortezomib is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Bosentan: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with bosentan due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cannabidiol: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting cannabidiol therapy. Avoid initiation of cannabidiol in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable cannabidiol therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and cannabidiol is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
carBAMazepine: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with carbamazepine due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure and may decrease carbamazepine concentrations. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and substrate and inducer of CYP3A and carbamazepine is a moderate inducer of CYP2C19 and substrate and strong inducer of CYP3A. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and mavacamten. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and mavacamten. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in celecoxib efficacy and increase the celecoxib dosage as appropriate based on response during concomitant use of celecoxib and mavacamten. Concomitant use may decrease celecoxib exposure. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cenobamate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of mavacamten and cenobamate is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased mavacamten exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer and moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Ceritinib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ceritinib therapy. Avoid initiation of ceritinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ceritinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting chloramphenicol therapy. Avoid initiation of chloramphenicol in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable chloramphenicol therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cimetidine: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting cimetidine therapy. Avoid initiation of cimetidine in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable cimetidine therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and cimetidine is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ciprofloxacin therapy. Avoid initiation of ciprofloxacin in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ciprofloxacin therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting clarithromycin therapy. Avoid initiation of clarithromycin in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable clarithromycin therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clozapine effectiveness if coadministered with mavacamten. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When mavacamten is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Clozapine is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting cobicistat therapy. Avoid initiation of cobicistat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable cobicistat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine and by CYP3A to norcodeine (norcodeine does not have analgesic properties); mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mavacamten can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Conivaptan: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting conivaptan therapy. Avoid initiation of conivaptan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable conivaptan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Crizotinib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting crizotinib therapy. Avoid initiation of crizotinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable crizotinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting cyclosporine therapy. Avoid initiation of cyclosporine in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable cyclosporine therapy. Closely monitor cyclosporine concentrations and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions, and may decrease cyclosporine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mavacamten is a substrate and weak inducer of CYP3A and cyclosporine is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Dabrafenib: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with dabrafenib due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Darunavir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting darunavir therapy. Avoid initiation of darunavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable darunavir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting cobicistat therapy. Avoid initiation of cobicistat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable cobicistat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers. (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting darunavir therapy. Avoid initiation of darunavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable darunavir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting cobicistat therapy. Avoid initiation of cobicistat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable cobicistat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers. (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting darunavir therapy. Avoid initiation of darunavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable darunavir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and quinidine. If concomitant therapy with quinidine is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A inducer.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in diclofenac efficacy during concomitant use of diclofenac and mavacamten; a diclofenac dosage increase may be required based on response. Concomitant use may decrease diclofenac exposure. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in diclofenac efficacy during concomitant use of diclofenac and mavacamten; a diclofenac dosage increase may be required based on response. Concomitant use may decrease diclofenac exposure. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting diltiazem therapy. Avoid initiation of diltiazem in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable diltiazem therapy. Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and diltiazem. If concomitant therapy with diltiazem is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten with diltiazem plus a beta-blocker due to association with left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use with diltiazem increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Disopyramide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and disopyramide. This medication combination may increase the risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms. If concomitant therapy with disopyramide is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved.
Doravirine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mavacamten may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mavacamten may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mavacamten may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in dronabinol efficacy if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of dronabinol. Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 substrate; mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Dronedarone: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting dronedarone therapy. Avoid initiation of dronedarone in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable dronedarone therapy. Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and dronedarone. If concomitant therapy with dronedarone is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Drospirenone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Duvelisib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting duvelisib therapy. Avoid initiation of duvelisib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable duvelisib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Efavirenz: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with efavirenz due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A and CYP2C19 inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with efavirenz due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A and CYP2C19 inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with efavirenz due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A and CYP2C19 inducer.
Elagolix: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with elagolix due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. There is also risk for increased adverse reactions due to mavacamten. Concomitant use may increase or decrease mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall exposure by 48%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with elagolix due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. There is also risk for increased adverse reactions due to mavacamten. Concomitant use may increase or decrease mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall exposure by 48%. (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting cobicistat therapy. Avoid initiation of cobicistat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable cobicistat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting cobicistat therapy. Avoid initiation of cobicistat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable cobicistat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Enasidenib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting enasidenib therapy. Avoid initiation of enasidenib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable enasidenib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and enasidenib is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Encorafenib: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with encorafenib due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ensitrelvir therapy. Avoid initiation of ensitrelvir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ensitrelvir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Enzalutamide: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with enzalutamide due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer and strong CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Erythromycin: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting erythromycin therapy. Avoid initiation of erythromycin in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable erythromycin therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Eslicarbazepine: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with eslicarbazepine due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. There is also risk for increased adverse reactions due to mavacamten. Concomitant use may increase or decrease mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor and moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall exposure by 48%.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting esomeprazole therapy. Avoid initiation of esomeprazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable esomeprazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and esomeprazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Etravirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of mavacamten and etravirine is contraindicated and may produce unpredictable effects on mavacamten including reduced mavacamten efficacy or an increased risk of mavacamten-related adverse effects such as heart failure due to systolic dysfunction. Etravirine exposure may also be decreased. Mavacamten is a substrate of CYP2C19 and CYP3A and a moderate inducer of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A; etravirine is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A substrate, a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor, and a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fedratinib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting fedratinib therapy. Avoid initiation of fedratinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable fedratinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP2C19 and CYP3A inhibitor.
Felbamate: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting felbamate therapy. Avoid initiation of felbamate in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable felbamate therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and felbamate is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of mavacamten is necessary. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like mavacamten with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of mavacamten and fexinidazole is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased mavacamten exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer and moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Flecainide: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and flecainide. If concomitant therapy with flecainide is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with fluconazole due to risk of heart failure due to systolic dysfunction. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
FLUoxetine: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with fluoxetine due to risk of heart failure due to systolic dysfunction. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with fluvoxamine due to risk of heart failure due to systolic dysfunction. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting fosamprenavir therapy. Avoid initiation of fosamprenavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable fosamprenavir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Fosphenytoin: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with fosphenytoin due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer and strong CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in glimepiride efficacy and worsening glycemic control if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease glimepiride exposure. Glimepiride is a CYP2C9 substrate; mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in glipizide efficacy and worsening glycemic control if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease glipizide exposure. Glipizide is a CYP2C9 substrate; mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in glipizide efficacy and worsening glycemic control if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease glipizide exposure. Glipizide is a CYP2C9 substrate; mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in glyburide efficacy and worsening glycemic control if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease glyburide exposure. Glyburide is a CYP2C9 substrate; mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in glyburide efficacy and worsening glycemic control if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease glyburide exposure. Glyburide is a CYP2C9 substrate; mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during mavacamten treatment due to the risk for increased mavacamten exposure and adverse reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Idelalisib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting idelalisib therapy. Avoid initiation of idelalisib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable idelalisib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Imatinib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting imatinib therapy. Avoid initiation of imatinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable imatinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting isavuconazonium therapy. Avoid initiation of isavuconazonium in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable isavuconazonium therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting isoniazid therapy. Avoid initiation of isoniazid in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable isoniazid therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and isoniazid is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Itraconazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting itraconazole therapy. Avoid initiation of itraconazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable itraconazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ketoconazole therapy. Avoid initiation of ketoconazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ketoconazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting clarithromycin therapy. Avoid initiation of clarithromycin in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable clarithromycin therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Lefamulin: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting oral lefamulin therapy. Avoid initiation of oral lefamulin in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable oral lefamulin therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting lenacapavir therapy. Avoid initiation of lenacapavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable lenacapavir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Letermovir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting letermovir therapy. Avoid initiation of letermovir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. For patients on stable letermovir therapy, the starting dose of mavacamten varies based on concomitant receipt of cyclosporine: initiate mavacamten at 5 mg PO once daily in those on letermovir alone, initiate mavacamten at 2.5 mg PO once daily in those on letermovir plus cyclosporine. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir/cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase mavacamten overall exposure up to 130%.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ketoconazole therapy. Avoid initiation of ketoconazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ketoconazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting lonafarnib therapy. Avoid initiation of lonafarnib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable lonafarnib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ritonavir therapy. Avoid initiation of ritonavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ritonavir therapy. Additionally, if concomitant use is necessary, monitor for a reduction in ritonavir efficacy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk for mavacamten-related adverse drug reactions, and decreases ritonavir exposure, which may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Lorlatinib: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with lorlatinib due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Luliconazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting topical luliconazole therapy. Avoid initiation of topical luliconazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable topical luliconazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and topical luliconazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and mavacamten as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary as concurrent use may decrease mefloquine exposure and efficacy. Mefloquine is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A; mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 and weak CYP2C19 and CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methohexital: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting mifepristone therapy. Avoid initiation of mifepristone in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable mifepristone therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Mitotane: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with mitotane due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Modafinil: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting modafinil therapy. Avoid initiation of modafinil in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable modafinil therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and modafinil is a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Nafcillin: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with nafcillin due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with mavacamten. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting esomeprazole therapy. Avoid initiation of esomeprazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable esomeprazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and esomeprazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Nefazodone: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting nefazodone therapy. Avoid initiation of nefazodone in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable nefazodone therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting nelfinavir therapy. Avoid initiation of nelfinavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable nelfinavir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting netupitant therapy. Avoid initiation of netupitant in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable netupitant therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
NiCARdipine: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting nicardipine therapy. Avoid initiation of nicardipine in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable nicardipine therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and nicardipine is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Nilotinib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting nilotinib therapy. Avoid initiation of nilotinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable nilotinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ritonavir therapy. Avoid initiation of ritonavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ritonavir therapy. Additionally, if concomitant use is necessary, monitor for a reduction in ritonavir efficacy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk for mavacamten-related adverse drug reactions, and decreases ritonavir exposure, which may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of mavacamten is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and mavacamten may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting nirogacestat therapy. Avoid initiation of nirogacestat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable nirogacestat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with mavacamten as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with fluoxetine due to risk of heart failure due to systolic dysfunction. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and fluoxetine is a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor.
Omeprazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting omeprazole therapy. Avoid initiation of omeprazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable omeprazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use of mavacamten 10 mg with omeprazole 20 mg once daily increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48% with no effect on peak exposure in healthy CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with rifabutin due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting omeprazole therapy. Avoid initiation of omeprazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable omeprazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use of mavacamten 10 mg with omeprazole 20 mg once daily increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48% with no effect on peak exposure in healthy CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting omeprazole therapy. Avoid initiation of omeprazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable omeprazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and omeprazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use of mavacamten 10 mg with omeprazole 20 mg once daily increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48% with no effect on peak exposure in healthy CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers.
Oritavancin: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting oritavancin therapy. Avoid initiation of oritavancin in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable oritavancin therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and oritavancin is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting osilodrostat therapy. Avoid initiation of osilodrostat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable osilodrostat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and osilodrostat is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
OXcarbazepine: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting oxcarbazepine therapy. Avoid initiation of oxcarbazepine in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable oxcarbazepine therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and oxcarbazepine is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Pacritinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of mavacamten and pacritinib is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased mavacamten exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavacamten is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate and pacritinib is a dual moderate CYP3A and CYP2C19 inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Pexidartinib: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with pexidartinib due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting topiramate therapy. Avoid initiation of topiramate in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable topiramate therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Phenytoin: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with phenytoin due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer and strong CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in glimepiride efficacy and worsening glycemic control if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease glimepiride exposure. Glimepiride is a CYP2C9 substrate; mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting pirtobrutinib therapy. Avoid initiation of pirtobrutinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable pirtobrutinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and pirtobrutinib is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Posaconazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting posaconazole therapy. Avoid initiation of posaconazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable posaconazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Primidone: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Procainamide: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and procainamide. If concomitant therapy with procainamide is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved.
Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Progestins: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and propafenone. If concomitant therapy with propafenone is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and quinidine. If concomitant therapy with quinidine is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved.
Ranolazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and ranolazine. This medication combination may increase the risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms. If concomitant therapy with ranolazine is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved.
Relacorilant: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting relacorilant therapy. Avoid initiation of relacorilant in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable relacorilant therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Repotrectinib: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with repotrectinib due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ribociclib. Avoid initiation of ribociclib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg/day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. In patients who are on stable ribociclib therapy, the starting dose of mavacamten varies based on the ribociclib dosage: initiate mavacamten at 5 mg PO once daily in those on ribociclib 400 mg/day, initiate mavacamten at 2.5 mg PO once daily in those on ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase mavacamten overall exposure up to 130%. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ribociclib. Avoid initiation of ribociclib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg/day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. In patients who are on stable ribociclib therapy, the starting dose of mavacamten varies based on the ribociclib dosage: initiate mavacamten at 5 mg PO once daily in those on ribociclib 400 mg/day, initiate mavacamten at 2.5 mg PO once daily in those on ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase mavacamten overall exposure up to 130%. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Rifabutin: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with rifabutin due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with rifampin due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A and strong CYP2C19 inducer. Concomitant use of a mavacamten 15 mg single dose with rifampin 600 mg/day is predicted to decrease mavacamten exposure by 87% in CYP2C19 normal metabolizers and by 69% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Rifapentine: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with rifapentine due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting rilzabrutinib therapy. Avoid initiation of rilzabrutinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable rilzabrutinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ritlecitinib therapy. Avoid initiation of ritlecitinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ritlecitinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting ritonavir therapy. Avoid initiation of ritonavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable ritonavir therapy. Additionally, if concomitant use is necessary, monitor for a reduction in ritonavir efficacy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk for mavacamten-related adverse drug reactions, and decreases ritonavir exposure, which may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer; ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Rucaparib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting rucaparib therapy. Avoid initiation of rucaparib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable rucaparib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and rucaparib is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Saquinavir: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting saquinavir therapy. Avoid initiation of saquinavir in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable saquinavir therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Secobarbital: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with barbiturates due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inducers. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease estrogen exposure. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 4 months following discontinuation of mavacamten. A regimen containing ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone or higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mavacamten, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Concurrent administration may decrease progestin exposure. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use studies suggest mavacamten may have a minimal effect on ethinyl estradiol with norethindrone but may affect other estrogen and progestin combinations.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and mavacamten may decrease siponimod exposure. If the patient is also receiving a drug regimen containing a strong CYP3A inducer, use of siponimod is not recommended due to a significant decrease in siponimod exposure. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate; mavacamten is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/strong CYP3A dual inducer decreased siponimod exposure by 57%.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of mavacamten. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and sotalol. If concomitant therapy with sotalol is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved.
Sotorasib: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with sotorasib due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with St. John's Wort due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer and strong CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Stiripentol: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting stiripentol therapy. Avoid initiation of stiripentol in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable stiripentol therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and stiripentol is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if mavacamten must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; a tacrolimus dose adjustment may be needed. Concurrent administration may decrease tacrolimus concentrations. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Tecovirimat: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting tecovirimat therapy. Avoid initiation of tecovirimat in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable tecovirimat therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and tecovirimat is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Telmisartan: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting telmisartan therapy. Avoid initiation of telmisartan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable telmisartan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and telmisartan is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting telmisartan therapy. Avoid initiation of telmisartan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable telmisartan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and telmisartan is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting telmisartan therapy. Avoid initiation of telmisartan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable telmisartan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and telmisartan is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting telmisartan therapy. Avoid initiation of telmisartan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable telmisartan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and telmisartan is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Timolol: (Moderate) Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and beta-blockers. If concomitant therapy with beta-blockers is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten and a beta-blocker plus verapamil or diltiazem due to an increased risk of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of mavacamten and tipranavir is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased mavacamten exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a moderate CYP2C19 inducer and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Topiramate: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting topiramate therapy. Avoid initiation of topiramate in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable topiramate therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and topiramate is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mavacamten is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If mavacamten is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting verapamil therapy. Avoid initiation of verapamil in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable verapamil therapy. Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and verapamil. If concomitant therapy with verapamil is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten with verapamil plus a beta-blocker due to association with left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of mavacamten 25 mg with verapamil sustained-release 240 mg increased mavacamten exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers.
Treosulfan: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting treosulfan therapy. Avoid initiation of treosulfan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable treosulfan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and treosulfan is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting triclabendazole therapy. Avoid initiation of triclabendazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable triclabendazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and triclabendazole is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Tucatinib: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting tucatinib therapy. Avoid initiation of tucatinib in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable tucatinib therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with mavacamten as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; mavacamten is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with mavacamten. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer.
Verapamil: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting verapamil therapy. Avoid initiation of verapamil in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable verapamil therapy. Expect additive negative inotropic effects during concomitant use of mavacamten and verapamil. If concomitant therapy with verapamil is initiated, or if the dose is increased, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction closely until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved. Avoid concomitant use of mavacamten with verapamil plus a beta-blocker due to association with left ventricular systolic dysfunction and heart failure symptoms. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of mavacamten 25 mg with verapamil sustained-release 240 mg increased mavacamten exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting vonoprazan therapy. Avoid initiation of vonoprazan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable vonoprazan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting vonoprazan therapy. Avoid initiation of vonoprazan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable vonoprazan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting clarithromycin therapy. Avoid initiation of clarithromycin in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable clarithromycin therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 130% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers. (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting vonoprazan therapy. Avoid initiation of vonoprazan in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable vonoprazan therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 substrate and vonoprazan is a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another weak CYP2C19 inhibitor in CYP2C19 normal and rapid metabolizers increased overall mavacamten exposure by 48%.
Voriconazole: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting voriconazole therapy. Avoid initiation of voriconazole in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at a reduced starting dose of 2.5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable voriconazole therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 an CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a moderate CYP2C19 and strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Voxelotor: (Major) Reduce the mavacamten dose by 1 level (i.e., 15 to 10 mg, 10 to 5 mg, or 5 to 2.5 mg) in patients receiving mavacamten and starting voxelotor therapy. Avoid initiation of voxelotor in patients who are on stable treatment with mavacamten 2.5 mg per day because a lower dose of mavacamten is not available. Initiate mavacamten at the recommended starting dose of 5 mg PO once daily in patients who are on stable voxelotor therapy. Concomitant use increases mavacamten exposure, which may increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. Mavacamten is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. The impact that a CYP3A inhibitor may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased mavacamten overall exposure by 15% in CYP2C19 normal and intermediate metabolizers; concomitant use in poor metabolizers is predicted to increase mavacamten exposure by up to 55%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with mavacamten is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The active metabolite of warfarin, the S-enantiomer, is a CYP2C9 substrate and mavacamten is a CYP2C9 inducer. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and mavacamten is a CYP3A inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    heart failure
    General Information
    Mavacamten reduces systolic contraction and can cause heart failure or significantly reduce ventricular function. In the EXPLORER-HCM clinical trial, mean (SD) absolute change from baseline in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was -4% (8) in the mavacamten-treated group and 0% (7) in the placebo group over the 30-week treatment period. At week 38, after an 8-week therapy interruption, mean LVEF was similar to baseline for both treatment groups. Reversible reductions in LVEF to less than 50% (median 48%: range 35% to 49%) while on treatment occurred in 7 (6%) subjects in the mavacamten-treated group and 2 (2%) subjects in the placebo group. In 3 of the 7 mavacamten-treated subjects and 1 of the 2 placebo subjects, these reductions were asymptomatic. In all 7 patients treated with mavacamten, LVEF recovered after interruption of therapy. Regular LVEF and Valsalva left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) gradient assessment is required for careful titration to achieve an appropriate target Valsalva LVOT gradient, while maintaining LVEF of 50% or more and avoiding heart failure symptoms. Up-titration of mavacamten in individuals with LVEF less than 55% is not recommended. Interrupt treatment if LVEF is less than 50% or if an individual experiences heart failure symptoms or worsening clinical status while taking mavacamten and promptly evaluate cardiac function. Signs and symptoms of heart failure include new or worsening arrhythmia, dyspnea, chest pain, fatigue, palpitations, leg edema, or elevations in N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dizziness, syncope
    General Information
    Dizziness (27% vs. 18%) and syncope (6% vs. 2%) were the most common adverse reactions reported with mavacamten and occurred more frequently on mavacamten than on placebo in the clinical trial. Syncope was the only adverse drug reaction leading to discontinuation in patients receiving mavacamten (0.8%) in the clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Mavacamten is an oral cardiac myosin inhibitor indicated for the treatment of symptomatic New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II to III obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy to improve functional capacity and symptoms. Mavacamten reduces systolic contraction and can cause heart failure or significantly reduce ventricular function. Regular left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and Valsalva left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) gradient assessment is required for careful titration to achieve an appropriate target Valsalva LVOT gradient, while maintaining LVEF of 50% or more and avoiding heart failure symptoms. Daily dosing takes weeks to reach steady-state drug concentrations and therapeutic effects, and genetic variation in metabolism and drug interactions can cause large differences in exposure. Mavacamten was FDA-approved in 2022.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Mavacamten is an allosteric and reversible inhibitor selective for cardiac myosin. Mavacamten modulates the number of myosin heads that can enter "on actin" (power-generating) states, thus reducing the probability of force-producing (systolic) and residual (diastolic) cross-bridge formation. Excess myosin actin cross-bridge formation and dysregulation of the super-relaxed state are mechanistic hallmarks of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). Mavacamten shifts the overall myosin population towards an energy-sparing, recruitable, super-relaxed state. In HCM patients, myosin inhibition with mavacamten reduces dynamic left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction and improves cardiac filling pressures.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Mavacamten has an estimated oral bioavailability of at least 85% and time to maximum concentration (Tmax) of 1 hour. There were no clinically significant differences in mavacamten pharmacokinetics observed after its administration with a high fat meal; Tmax was increased by 4 hours.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mavacamten exposures (AUC) increased up to 220% in patients with mild (Child-Pugh A) or moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment. The effect of severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of mavacamten were observed based on mild (eGFR 60 to 89 mL/minute/1.73 m2) to moderate (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2) renal impairment. The effects of severe (eGFR 15 to 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2) renal impairment and kidney failure (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2, including patients on dialysis) are unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of mavacamten were observed based on age (range 18 to 82 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of mavacamten were observed based on gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of mavacamten were observed based on race or ethnicity.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    CYP2C19 Poor Metabolizers
Mavacamten exposure increased by 241% and Cmax increased by 47% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers compared to normal metabolizers after a single dose of mavacamten 15 mg. Mavacamten terminal half-life is 6 to 9 days in CYP2C19 normal metabolizers, which is prolonged in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers to 23 days. Mavacamten accumulation is approximately 100% for Cmax and approximately 600% for AUC in CYP2C19 normal metabolizers. Accumulation depends on the CYP2C19 metabolism status with the largest accumulation observed in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
 
Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy
At the same dose of mavacamten, 170% higher exposures of mavacamten are observed in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy compared to healthy subjects.
  Text
  Mavacamten is administered orally. The plasma protein binding of mavacamten is about 98%. Mavacamten exposure increases generally dose proportionally after multiple once-daily doses of 1 to 15 mg. Mavacamten is extensively metabolized, primarily through CYP2C19 (74%), CYP3A4 (18%), and CYP2C9 (8%). After a single radiolabeled mavacamten dose, 7% of the dose was recovered in the feces (1% unchanged) and 85% was recovered in the urine (3% unchanged). Mavacamten has a variable half-life that depends on CYP2C19 metabolic status. At steady-state, the peak-to-trough plasma concentration ratio with once daily dosing is approximately 1.5.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A4
Mavacamten is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 substrate and a CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 inducer.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Swallow capsule whole. Do not break, open, or chew the capsules.
May administer without regard to food.
Missed dose: Administer a missed dose as soon as possible and the next scheduled dose at the usual time the following day. Exact timing of dosing during the day is not essential, but do not administer 2 doses on the same day.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    15 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    15 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
