=== Foscarbidopa/Foslevodopa (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5567)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Foscarbidopa; foslevodopa is a combination of an aromatic amino acid decarboxylation inhibitor (foscarbidopa) and an aromatic amino acid (foslevodopa) that are prodrugs of carbidopa and levodopa, respectfully.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 3,525 mg/day of the foslevodopa component infused subcutaneously (equivalent to approximately 2,500 mg levodopa).

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, confusion, delirium, hallucinations, insomnia, paranoia, psychosis, ecchymosis, erythema, hematoma, infection, injection site reaction, pallor, pruritus, rash, peripheral neuropathy, seizures, vitamin b6 deficiency

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Foscarbidopa is a prodrug of carbidopa, and foslevodopa is a prodrug of levodopa. Site selection: Administer foscarbidopa; foslevodopa subcutaneously, preferably in the abdomen, avoiding the area with a 2-inch radius from the navel.

Brand Names
  - Vyalev

Dosage Forms
  - VYALEV 120mg-2400mg/10mL Solution for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Subcutaneous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        The subcutaneous continuous infusion rate is based on total levodopa dosage (TLD). The hourly base continuous subcutaneous infusion rate (mL/hour) = [(TLD x 1.3) / 240] / [number of hours the patient is typically awake (e.g., 16 hours)]. Treatment may be administered over the patient's waking hours or may be administered over 24 hours. Max daily dose: 3,525 mg of foslevodopa (equivalent to approximately 2,500 mg levodopa). DETERMINING BASE INFUSION RATE: Calculate the total levodopa dosage (TLD) for levodopa-containing medications that foscarbidopa; foslevodopa is replacing. All doses should be converted to the equivalent dose of oral immediate-release levodopa to obtain the TLD. Total dose of levodopa-containing products should be adjusted for COMT inhibitor use. Do not include rescue or as-needed levodopa or any other anti-Parkinsonian medication in calculating the TLD. Next, determine the total daily dose of the foslevodopa component by multiplying the TLD by a factor of 1.3. Then determine the total daily volume (mL) of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa by dividing the total daily dosage of foslevodopa by 240. Each 1 mL of injection solution contains 240 mg of foslevodopa. Lastly, determine the hourly base continuous infusion rate by dividing the total daily volume (mL) of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa by the number of hours the patient is typically awake (e.g., 16 hours). The daily dosage may be administered over the patient's waking hours or may be administered for 24 hours. Max daily dose: 3,525 mg of foslevodopa (equivalent to approximately 2,500 mg levodopa). OPTIONAL LOADING DOSE: If foscarbidopa; foslevodopa therapy is being initiated during an "off" state or the patient has not been receiving their base continuous infusion for more than 3 hours, a loading dose may be administered immediately prior to starting or re-starting the base continuous hourly infusion. Loading doses can be administered with either foscarbidopa; foslevodopa or the patient can continue using oral immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa tablets. The loading dose should be calculated from the first morning dose of immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa the patient took prior to starting treatment with foscarbidopa; foslevodopa. If used for a loading dose, multiply the first morning dose of oral immediate-release levodopa by 1.3 and divide by 240 to determine the volume of loading dose of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa. The pump is capable of delivering a loading dose ranging from 0.1 mL to a max of 3 mL in increments of 0.1 mL. EXTRA DOSE: An extra dose can be programmed to include 1 of 5 options: an extra dose of 0.1 mL, equivalent to approximately 17 mg levodopa; 0.15 mL, equivalent to 25.5 mg levodopa; 0.2 mL, equivalent to 34 mg levodopa; 0.25 mL, equivalent to 42.5 mg levodopa, or 0.3 mL, equivalent to 51 mg levodopa. The "extra dose" feature is limited to no more than 1 extra dose per hour on the pump. If 2 or more extra doses are needed by the patient during the 24-hour/day treatment period, a revision of the base continuous infusion rate should be considered. Refer to the manufacturer's prescribing information for additional information.
    Heading
    For the treatment of motor fluctuations in people with advanced Parkinson disease

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Foscarbidopa is a prodrug of carbidopa, and foslevodopa is a prodrug of levodopa.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, sleep disorder
    General Information
    People treated with levodopa, the active metabolite of foscarbidopa;foslevodopa, have reported drowsiness and sudden sleep episodes, sometimes without warning, leading to accidents. These events can occur even after more than a year of treatment and are more common in individuals with pre-existing somnolence, such as those taking concomitant CNS depressants and people with a sleep disorder. These symptoms may go unnoticed unless specifically asked; regularly assess foscarbidopa; foslevodopa recipients for drowsiness and somnolence. Patients should be informed of the risk of sudden sleep before starting therapy and advised to avoid hazardous activities, especially if they have sleep disorders or are taking CNS depressants or alcohol. Those who experience sleep episodes should avoid driving or operating machinery and other activities requiring coordination and concentration while taking foscarbidopa;foslevodopa. For some people, discontinuation may be necessary. Dose reduction has not been proven effective in preventing episodes of falling asleep while engaging in activities of daily living.
    Headline
    psychotic disorder
    General Information
    The use of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa can increase the risk for hallucinations and psychosis. Due to the risk of exacerbating psychosis, patients with a major psychotic disorder should not be treated with foscarbidopa; foslevodopa. People receiving foscarbidopa; foslevodopa should be monitored closely for these effects, which may present shortly after initiation of therapy and may be responsive to dose reduction of the medication or other concomitantly administered medications. Confusion, insomnia, and excessive dreaming may accompany hallucinations. Abnormal thinking and behavior may present with one or more symptoms, including paranoid ideation, delusions, hallucinations, confusion, psychosis, disorientation, aggressive behavior, agitation, and delirium.
    Headline
    cardiac arrhythmias, myocardial infarction
    General Information
    Patients with a history of myocardial infarction or cardiac arrhythmias should be monitored closely for symptoms of ischemic heart disease and arrhythmia when receiving foscarbidopa; foslevodopa. In clinical studies, arrhythmia and myocardial infarction were reported in patients taking carbidopa; levodopa (the active metabolites of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa).
    Headline
    glaucoma
    General Information
    Carbidopa; levodopa (the active metabolites of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa) may cause increased intraocular pressure in people with glaucoma. Monitor intraocular pressure in people with glaucoma after starting foscarbidopa; foslevodopa.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the developmental risk associated with the use of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa in pregnant patients. Foscarbidopa is a prodrug of carbidopa, and foslevodopa is a prodrug of levodopa. Limited data suggest that carbidopa crosses the placenta in humans in low concentrations. Levodopa crosses the placenta and reaches levels in the fetus comparable to maternal blood, although pregnancy outcomes have been primarily unremarkable. Two miscarriages were reported in the first trimester during use of carbidopa-levodopa, and 1 infant exposed to levodopa in utero was reported to have osteomalacia. Maternal complications reported in 3 pregnancies during use of carbidopa-levodopa included first trimester vaginal bleeding, third trimester nausea and vomiting, depression, and preeclampsia. In animal studies, carbidopa/levodopa has been shown to be developmentally toxic (including teratogenic effects) at clinically relevant doses. Visceral and skeletal malformations were observed in rabbits at all doses and ratios of carbidopa/levodopa tested. In rats, there was a decrease in live births.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use foscarbidopa; foslevodopa with caution during breast-feeding. There are no adequate data on the presence of foscarbidopa or foslevodopa in human milk or the effects of these components on milk production or the breastfed infant. Foscarbidopa is a prodrug of carbidopa, and foslevodopa is a prodrug of levodopa. Levodopa has been detected in human milk after administration of carbidopa; levodopa. In a case report of a breast-feeding mother with Parkinson's disease receiving sustained-release (SR) carbidopa/levodopa 50/200 mg 4 times daily, peak levodopa concentrations in milk occurred 3 hours after a dose and returned to baseline after 6 hours. After receiving the same dose of an immediate-release (IR) formulation, similar results were observed, except for a higher milk to plasma ratio with the IR product (0.32 vs. 0.28). The infant ingested 0.127 mg and 0.181 mg of levodopa after maternal intake of the SR and IR products, respectively. It was estimated that the infant received an average of 0.3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dosage of the SR product and 0.5% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose of the IR product. Levodopa did not inhibit lactation in this case report. No adverse effects were observed in the infant, whose development was normal at 2 years of age. Mechanistically, levodopa decreases secretion of prolactin in humans, which may inhibit lactation. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for foscarbidopa; foslevodopa and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the medication or from the underlying maternal condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the developmental risk associated with the use of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa in pregnant patients. Foscarbidopa is a prodrug of carbidopa, and foslevodopa is a prodrug of levodopa. Limited data suggest that carbidopa crosses the placenta in humans in low concentrations. Levodopa crosses the placenta and reaches levels in the fetus comparable to maternal blood, although pregnancy outcomes have been primarily unremarkable. Two miscarriages were reported in the first trimester during use of carbidopa-levodopa, and 1 infant exposed to levodopa in utero was reported to have osteomalacia. Maternal complications reported in 3 pregnancies during use of carbidopa-levodopa included first trimester vaginal bleeding, third trimester nausea and vomiting, depression, and preeclampsia. In animal studies, carbidopa/levodopa has been shown to be developmentally toxic (including teratogenic effects) at clinically relevant doses. Visceral and skeletal malformations were observed in rabbits at all doses and ratios of carbidopa/levodopa tested. In rats, there was a decrease in live births.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use foscarbidopa; foslevodopa with caution during breast-feeding. There are no adequate data on the presence of foscarbidopa or foslevodopa in human milk or the effects of these components on milk production or the breastfed infant. Foscarbidopa is a prodrug of carbidopa, and foslevodopa is a prodrug of levodopa. Levodopa has been detected in human milk after administration of carbidopa; levodopa. In a case report of a breast-feeding mother with Parkinson's disease receiving sustained-release (SR) carbidopa/levodopa 50/200 mg 4 times daily, peak levodopa concentrations in milk occurred 3 hours after a dose and returned to baseline after 6 hours. After receiving the same dose of an immediate-release (IR) formulation, similar results were observed, except for a higher milk to plasma ratio with the IR product (0.32 vs. 0.28). The infant ingested 0.127 mg and 0.181 mg of levodopa after maternal intake of the SR and IR products, respectively. It was estimated that the infant received an average of 0.3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dosage of the SR product and 0.5% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose of the IR product. Levodopa did not inhibit lactation in this case report. No adverse effects were observed in the infant, whose development was normal at 2 years of age. Mechanistically, levodopa decreases secretion of prolactin in humans, which may inhibit lactation. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for foscarbidopa; foslevodopa and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the medication or from the underlying maternal condition.

Interactions
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Amisulpride: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as amisulpride. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Belladonna; Opium: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of CNS toxicity, such as restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness, if concomitant use of levodopa and bupropion is necessary. Both medications have dopamine agonist effects and use may increase the risk for dopamine-related adverse reactions.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of CNS toxicity, such as restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness, if concomitant use of levodopa and bupropion is necessary. Both medications have dopamine agonist effects and use may increase the risk for dopamine-related adverse reactions.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Captopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Codeine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for symptoms of CNS toxicity, such as restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness, if concomitant use of levodopa and bupropion is necessary. Both medications have dopamine agonist effects and use may increase the risk for dopamine-related adverse reactions.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as doxazosin, is necessary. A doxazosin dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as droperidol. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Droxidopa: (Moderate) Monitor for a reduction in droxidopa efficacy during concomitant use of carbidopa; consider a droxidopa dosage adjustment as needed based on clinical response. Concomitant use may inhibit the conversion of droxidopa to its active metabolite, norepinephrine, outside of the central nervous system. Concomitant use has been observed to increase overall exposure to the pharmacologically inactive compounds droxidopa and methoxylated dihydroxyphenylserine (3-OM-DOPS) by 2- and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as eplerenone, is necessary. An eplerenone dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as epoprostenol, is necessary. An epoprostenol dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and phenytoin. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as gabapentin. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as haloperidol. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as iloprost, is necessary. An iloprost dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and isoniazid. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Linezolid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as linezolid, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of linezolid before initiating levodopa.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Losartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as loxapine. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of macimorelin and levodopa. Consider allowing at least 12 hours, or 5 medication half-lives, to elapse after levodopa administration before using macimorelin. Levodopa may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations and interfere with macimorelin test results.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as mecamylamine, is necessary. A mecamylamine dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Methadone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a centrally-acting adrenergic agent, is necessary. An antihypertensive dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Methylene Blue: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as methylene blue, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of methylene blue before initiating levodopa.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as metoclopramide. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Molindone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as molindone. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
Morphine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and oral glycopyrrolate; a levodopa dosage adjustment may be required based on response. Concomitant use may reduce levodopa exposure.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Opiate Agonists: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and papaverine. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions. (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Phenothiazines: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as phenoxybenzamine, is necessary. A phenoxybenzamine dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and phenytoin. Concomitant use may interfere with the actions of levodopa.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as pimozide. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as prazosin, is necessary. A prazosin dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as pregabalin. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Primidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Procarbazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as procarbazine, is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of procarbazine before initiating levodopa.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Minor) If levodopa is administered without carbidopa, monitor for reduced levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of pyridoxine (vitamin B6). Pyridoxine in doses of 10 mg to 25 mg may promote extracerebral degradation of levodopa which may reduce its efficacy. Carbidopa inhibits this effect of pyridoxine.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Monitor for orthostatic hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and selective monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitors, such as rasagiline, is necessary.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Rotigotine: (Minor) Monitor for new or worsening dyskinesias during concomitant use of rotigotine and levodopa. Rotigotine use may potentiate the dopaminergic effects of levodopa in some patients, worsening the incidence and severity of dyskinesias. The incidence of adverse effects increases with increasing dose.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Sapropterin: (Moderate) Monitor patients for neurologic adverse effects, such as seizures, over-stimulation, and irritability, during concomitant use of sapropterin and levodopa. Concomitant use has been associated with changes in neurologic status, especially in patients with underlying neurological disorders.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as barbiturates. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for orthostatic hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and selective monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitors, such as selegiline, is necessary.
Sepiapterin: (Moderate) Monitor for neurologic adverse effects, such as seizures, over-stimulation, and irritability, during concomitant use of sepiapterin and levodopa. Sepiapterin may increase the availability of tyrosine, a levodopa precursor, which may increase the risk for levodopa-related adverse effects.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as levodopa.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as tetrabenazine. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions. While concomitant use is generally not recommended for this reason, combination therapy may be beneficial in the management of some levodopa-related dyskinesias.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Thioridazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of levodopa and dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, such as thiothixene. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists interfere with dopamine's actions.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a beta-blocker, is necessary. A beta-blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a loop diuretic, is necessary. A loop diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as opioid agonists. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), is necessary. An ACEI dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of levodopa and nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis. Allow a minimum of 2 weeks to elapse following discontinuation of MAOI therapy before initiating levodopa.
Treprostinil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as treprostinil, is necessary. A treprostinil dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a potassium-sparing diuretic, is necessary. A potassium-sparing diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as benzodiazepines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as phenothiazines. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as phenothiazines, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects, such as somnolence, hypertension, and dyskinesias, during concomitant use of levodopa and tricyclic antidepressants. Sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating, may also occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a thiazide diuretic, is necessary. A thiazide diuretic dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use. (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is necessary. An ARB dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a vasodilator, is necessary. A vasodilator dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for postural hypotension if concomitant use of levodopa and an antihypertensive, such as a calcium-channel blocker, is necessary. A calcium-channel blocker dosage reduction may be required. Both medications lower blood pressure and this effect may be additive with concomitant use.
Vitamin B Complex Supplements: (Minor) If levodopa is administered without carbidopa, monitor for reduced levodopa efficacy during concomitant use of pyridoxine (vitamin B6). Pyridoxine in doses of 10 mg to 25 mg may promote extracerebral degradation of levodopa which may reduce its efficacy. Carbidopa inhibits this effect of pyridoxine.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents, such as atypical antipsychotics. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known. Additionally, concomitant use may reduce levodopa effectiveness. Levodopa is converted to dopamine; dopamine receptor antagonists, such as atypical antipsychotics, interfere with dopamine's actions.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Advise patients of possible additive risk for somnolence during concomitant use of levodopa with sedating agents. Concomitant use may also increase the risk for sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living, such as driving or eating; this adverse effect may occur without any warning signs. Patients should consider avoiding activities such as driving or operating machinery until the effects of this combination are known.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    drowsiness, sudden sleep onset
    General Information
    Patients treated with levodopa (the active metabolite of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa) have reported falling asleep while enagaged in activities of daily living, including the operation of motor vehicles, which sometimes resulted in accidents. Although many patients reported somnolence while on levodopa, some had no warning signs (such as excessive drowsiness) and believed they were alert immediately prior to sudden sleep onset. Patients should be warned of these risks prior to starting foscarbidopa; foslevodopa and monitored during treatment. Consider discontinuing treatment in patients who report significant daytime drowsiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sudden sleep onset
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    agitation, confusion, delirium, hallucinations, insomnia, paranoia, psychosis
    General Information
    In clinical studies, hallucinations occurred in 12.2% of patients taking foscarbidopa; foslevodopa compared with 1.5% of patients treated with oral immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa. Psychosis occurred in 4.1% of patients treated with foscarbidopa; foslevodopa compared with 1.5% of patients treated with oral immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa. Agitation (4%) and insomnia (4%) were also reported more commonly with foscarbidopa; foslevodopa therapy than with oral carbidopa-levodopa treatment. Treatment with foscarbidopa; foslevodopa was discontinued in 1 patient (1.4%) because of hallucinations. Hallucinations associated with levodopa (the active metabolite of foslevodopa) may be accompanied by confusion, insomnia, and excessive dreaming. Abnormal thinking and behavior may present with one or more symptoms, including paranoia, delusions, hallucinations, confusion, psychosis, disorientation, aggressive behavior, agitation, and delirium. Review of treatment is necessary if these symptoms develop.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paranoia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dyskinesia
    General Information
    Foscarbidopa; foslevodopa can cause or exacerbate dyskinesias. In clinical studies, dyskinesia occurred in 11% of patients treated with foscarbidopa; foslevodopa compared to 6% of patients treated with oral immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa. The occurrence of dyskinesias may require a dosage reduction of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa or other medications used to treat Parkinson disease. Other movement disorders reported in clinical trials include "on and off" phenomenon, characterized by a change in clinical state in which patients with Parkinson disease exhibit rapid onset of motor symptoms (such as akinesia or bradykinesia) and/or non-motor symptoms (such as neuropsychiatric, autonomic, or sensory manifestations) that result in functional disability. In clinical trials, the "on and off" phenomenon was reported in 8% of patients receiving foscarbidopa; foslevodopa. This adverse reaction was not reported in patients receiving the oral immediate-release formulation of carbidopa; levodopa. Balance disorder was also reported in 5% of patients receiving foscarbidopa; foslevodopa in clinical trials, compared with no reported cases on oral immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    ecchymosis, erythema, hematoma, infection, injection site reaction, pallor, pruritus, rash
    General Information
    An infusion or injection site reaction was reported during clinical trials by 62% of patients treated with foscarbidopa; foslevodopa subcutaneous infusion compared to 8% of placebo recipients. Reported reactions varied and included erythema, pain, edema, nodule formation, ecchymosis (bruising), hemorrhage, induration, pruritus, extravasation, inflammation, mass, warmth, hematoma, pallor, rash, and swelling. In clinical studies, 8% of patients treated with foscarbidopa; foslevodopa discontinued treatment due to infusion site reactions. Infection at the infusion site was also reported in clinical studies and occurred in 28% of patients treated with foscarbidopa; foslevodopa compared to 3% of patients receiving placebo subcutaneous infusions. Infections were a cause for drug discontinuation in 5% of patients treated with foscarbidopa; foslevodopa and 2% of placebo recipients. The most frequent infusion site infection reported was cellulitis. If an infection is suspected at the infusion site, the cannula should be removed from the infusion site and a new cannula should be placed at a new site or, in the event of a prolonged interruption, the patient should receive an oral carbidopa; levodopa product until foscarbidopa; foslevodopa can be resumed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hematoma
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pallor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    impulse control symptoms
    General Information
    People taking medications that increase central dopaminergic tone, including foscarbidopa; foslevodopa, may experience intense urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, intense urges to spend money, binge or compulsive eating, and/or other intense urges and the inability to control these urges. In some (but not all) cases, these urges were reported to stop following a dose reduction or discontinuation of the medication. People experiencing these impaired impulse control symptoms may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal, and prescribers should ask patients and caregivers specifically about the development of new or increased urges while receiving treatment. Dose reduction should be considered for any person who experiences these urges while receiving foscarbidopa; foslevodopa.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impulse control symptoms
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dyspnea
    General Information
    Dyspnea was reported in 4% of patients taking foscarbidopa; foslevodopa in clinical trials. There were no reported cases of this adverse effect in patients receiving oral immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation
    General Information
    In clinical trials, 5% of patients receiving foscarbidopa; foslevodopa reported constipation. There were no reports of constipation in patients taking oral immediate-release carbidopa; levdopa.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral edema
    General Information
    Peripheral swelling (peripheral edema) was reported in 5% of patients receiving foscarbidopa; foslevodopa subcutaneous infusion in clinical studies. There were no reports of peripheral swelling in patients receiving oral immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arrhythmia exacerbation, myocardial infarction
    General Information
    In clinical studies, myocardial infarction and arrhythmia exacerbation have been reported in patients taking carbidopa-levodopa (the active metabolites of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa injection).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    ocular hypertension
    General Information
    Carbidopa-levodopa (the active metabolites of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa injection) may cause increased intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension) in patients with glaucoma. Monitor intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma after starting foscarbidopa; foslevodopa.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms
    General Information
    Avoid abrupt discontinuation or rapid dose reduction of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa therapy. A complex of neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms (characterized by elevated temperature, muscular rigidity, altered consciousness, and autonomic instability) with no other obvious etiology has occurred with rapid dose reduction, withdrawal of, or changes in dopaminergic therapy. If the medication is discontinued, the dose should be tapered to reduce the risk of hyperpyrexia and confusion.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    peripheral neuropathy, seizures, vitamin B6 deficiency
    General Information
    Treatment with carbidopa; levodopa (the active metabolites of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa) may contribute to reduced vitamin B6 concentrations, and higher doses of carbidopa; levodopa may increase the risk of vitamin B6 deficiency. Seizures associated with vitamin B6 deficiency have been reported in the postmarketing setting in people taking carbidopa; levodopa. In these reported cases, seizures were refractory to traditional antiseizure medications and only resolved after vitamin B6 administration. Other symptoms of vitamin B6 deficiency may occur, including depression, confusion, cheilosis, glossitis, dermatitis, anemia, and/or peripheral neuropathy. Evaluate vitamin B6 concentrations prior to initiation of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa and periodically while on treatment, or if symptoms associated with vitamin B6 deficiency are identified. Supplementation with vitamin B6 may be necessary.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      vitamin B6 deficiency
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Foscarbidopa; foslevodopa is a combination of an aromatic amino acid decarboxylation inhibitor (foscarbidopa) and an aromatic amino acid (foslevodopa) that are prodrugs of carbidopa and levodopa, respectfully. The product is administered through a pump as a subcutaneous infusion and is indicated for the treatment of motor fluctuations in adults with advanced Parkinson disease (PD). Efficacy for this formulation was established in a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, active-controlled, multicenter study in patients with advanced PD who were responsive to levodopa treatment, had motor fluctuations inadequately controlled by their current regimen, and experienced a minimum of 2.5 hours of "off" time per day. Patients received either a 24-hour/day continuous subcutaneous infusion of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa plus oral placebo capsules or a 24-hour/day subcutaneous infusion of placebo and oral immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa. At baseline, approximately 74% of patients in the foscarbidopa; foslevodopa group and 66% of the oral carbidopa; levodopa group were taking at least 1 or more classes of PD medications other than carbidopa; levodopa. At the end of 12 weeks, foscarbidopa; foslevodopa has statistically significant improvements in "on" time without troublesome dyskinesia, increasing "on" time by 2.72 hours compared to 0.97 hours with immediate-release carbidopa; levodopa (p = 0.0083). The subcutaneous formulation also showed a reduction in "off" time -2.75 hours compared to -0.96 hours with the oral immediate-release formulation (p = 0.0054). The most common adverse reactions associated with treatment include infusion/catheter site reactions or infections, hallucinations, and dyskinesia. Like other carbidopa; levodopa formulations, patients should be cautioned about the risk of falling asleep during daily activities (including driving or operating machinery) and increased risk of impulse control behaviors with the use of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa. The FDA approved this combination product in October 2024.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The motor symptoms of Parkinson disease are related to degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, leading to a depletion of dopamine in the corpus striatum. Administration of dopamine is ineffective in treatment of Parkinson disease, as it is unable to cross the blood-brain barrier. However, levodopa is the metabolic precursor of dopamine, crosses the blood-brain barrier, and is converted into dopamine in the brain. When levodopa is administered orally, it is rapidly decarboxylated to dopamine in extracerebral tissues so that only a small portion of a given dose is transported unchanged into the central nervous system. Carbidopa inhibits the decarboxylation of peripheral levodopa, making more levodopa available for delivery to the brain. Foscarbidopa; foslevodopa is a prodrug combination of carbidopa-4-monophosphate and levodopa-4-monophosphate. In vivo, these compounds are converted to carbidopa and levodopa.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Subcutaneous Route
    Description
    In a phase 1 study of healthy volunteers, carbidopa and levodopa were detectable in plasma within 30 minutes at the first pharmacokinetic collection point. The steady-state levodopa was achieved within 2 hours when foscarbidopa; foslevodopa was administered as a loading dose followed by continuous infusion. Following administration of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa at different subcutaneous sites (i.e., abdomen, arm, and thigh), pharmacokinetic analysis showed that the 3 sites provided comparable carbidopa and levodopa exposure, suggesting foscarbidopa; foslevodopa absorption is similar at different subcutaneous sites. The consumption of food does not affect absorption or systemic exposure of carbidopa; levodopa, as foscarbidopa; foslevodopa bypasses the gut.
  Text
  Foscarbidopa; foslevodopa is administered subcutaneously via subcutaneous infusion. After administration, foscarbidopa; foslevodopa is converted to carbidopa and levodopa by alkaline phosphatase. Foslevodopa and foscarbidopa are between 25% and 26% bound to plasma proteins. Levodopa is distributed between erythrocytes and plasma in an approximately 1:1 ratio. Levodopa binding to plasma proteins is less than 10%. Levodopa is transported into the brain by the carrier mechanism for large neutral amino acids. Carbidopa is approximately 36% bound to plasma proteins and does not cross the blood-brain barrier. Levodopa is mainly eliminated via metabolism by the aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AAAD) and the catechol-O-methyl-transferase (COMT) enzymes. Other routes of metabolism are transamination and oxidation. The decarboxylation of levodopa to dopamine by AAAD is the major enzymatic pathway when no enzyme inhibitor is co-administered. O-methylation of levodopa by COMT forms 3-O-methyldopa. When administered with carbidopa, the elimination half-life of levodopa is approximately 1.5 hours. Carbidopa is metabolized to two main metabolites (alpha-methyl-3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid and alpha-methyl-3,4-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid). These 2 metabolites are primarily eliminated in the urine unchanged or as glucuronide conjugates. Unchanged carbidopa accounts for 30% of the total urinary excretion. The elimination half-life of carbidopa is approximately 2 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Subcutaneous Administration
      Description
      For subcutaneous infusion administration only, using the VYAFUSER pump.
Patients and/or caregivers should be trained on the proper use of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa and the delivery system before initiating treatment and, as necessary after that. See the manufacturer provided "Instructions for Use".
Prescribing of a backup oral carbidopa; levodopa product is recommended in the event that delivery of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa is interrupted, which may result in underdosing. Sudden discontinuation or rapid dose reduction of foscarbidopa; foslevodopa, without administration of alternative dopaminergic therapy, should generally be avoided.
Preparation
Use aseptic technique and sterile, single-patient-use infusion components (syringe, infusion set, and vial adapter) qualified for use with the pump to infuse foscarbidopa; foslevodopa.
Each 1 mL of the injection solution contains 240 mg of foslevodopa.
Do not dilute the injection solution. Do not mix the injection solution with any other products. Do not shake.
Medication vials are for a single dose only. The entire contents of the vial should be transferred into a syringe for administration. Do not withdraw a partial portion of the vial contents.
The infusion set (cannula) can remain in place for up to 3 days when foscarbidopa; foslevodopa is infused continuously.
Administration
Site selection:
Administer foscarbidopa; foslevodopa subcutaneously, preferably in the abdomen, avoiding the area with a 2-inch radius from the navel.
Rotate the subcutaneous infusion site and use a new infusion set at least every 3 days.
Select a new infusion site at least 1 inch from sites used within the previous 12 days.
Do not infuse foscarbidopa; foslevodopa into areas where the site is tender, bruised, red, or hard to the touch.
Infusion Flow Rates:
Adjustments: May adjust infusion rate in increments of 0.01 mL/hour (equivalent to approximately 1.7 mg of levodopa per hour).
Alternative Flow Rates: The health care provider has the option to enable and pre-program the pump with 2 alternative continuous infusion rates (Low/High) that the patient may select to account for changes in functional demand (e.g., lowering the dosage at night or increasing the dose for prolonged intense activity. See the "Healthcare Professional Instructions for Use of Vyafuser Pump" from the manufacturer for additional information.
Discarding Vyalev and Syringe:
Discard the vial after transfer of the product to the syringe. Discard the syringe and any unused injection solution in the syringe after the product has been in the syringe for 24 hours.
Interruptions of therapy
Following interruptions of more than 1 hour, a new infusion set (tubing and cannula) should be used and rotated to a different infusion site. If the infusion has been interrupted for longer than 3 hours, the patient may also self-administer a loading dose if enabled by their health care provider.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
The injection is a colorless to yellow to brown (may have a purple or red tint) and clear to slightly opalescent solution.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    3,525 mg/day of the foslevodopa component infused subcutaneously (equivalent to approximately 2,500 mg levodopa).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    3,525 mg/day of the foslevodopa component infused subcutaneously (equivalent to approximately 2,500 mg levodopa).
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
