=== Ergotamine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1320)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ergotamine is an ergot alkaloid indicated for the treatment of acute migraine.

Routes: oral, rectal; Common adult doses: 6 mg/24 hours or per attack SL; not to exceed 10 mg/week SL.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bowel ischemia, colitis, bradycardia, cyanosis, hypertension, musculoskeletal pain, peripheral vasoconstriction, sinus tachycardia, medication overuse headache, physiological dependence, withdrawal, cardiac valvulopathy, pulmonary fibrosis, retroperitoneal fibrosis, paresthesias, vertigo, weakness, fetal death, spontaneous fetal abortion, uterine contractions

In an Overdose: While most cases of ergotism associated with ergotamine treatment result from overdosage, some cases have involved apparent hypersensitivity.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Ergotamine is contraindicated in patients with known ergot alkaloid hypersensitivity because they may develop an allergic or otherwise adverse reaction. Patients should be advised not to exceed the recommended dosage of ergotamine during use.

Brand Names
  - Ergomar

Dosage Forms
  - Cafergot 1mg-100mg Tablet
  - Cafergot 1mg-100mg Tablet
  - Ergomar 2mg Sublingual Tablet
  - Ergotamine Tartrate 1mg, Caffeine 100mg Oral tablet
  - Ergotamine Tartrate Bulk powder
  - Migergot 100mg-2mg Rectal Suppository

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Sublingual dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        2 mg SL at the start of attack, followed by 2 mg SL every 30 minutes if needed for full relief. Max: 6 mg/day and 10 mg/week. Guidelines classify ergotamine as having possible efficacy for the treatment of acute migraine.
    Heading
    For the acute treatment of migraine

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Ergotamine is contraindicated in patients with known ergot alkaloid hypersensitivity because they may develop an allergic or otherwise adverse reaction. Patients should be advised not to exceed the recommended dosage of ergotamine during use. Patients should report any of the following symptoms: abdominal pain, anxiety, chest pain, myalgia, severe nausea and vomiting, numbness, tingling, or vision changes. If signs and symptoms of impaired circulation occur, the medication should be discontinued, and affected extremities should be kept warm.
 
Ergotamine should be avoided in patients with basilar/hemiplegic migraine because safety and efficacy have not been established. Treatment for migraine-induced stroke has not been formally evaluated and ergot alkaloids for abortive therapy of the migraine should be avoided because they may further reduce cerebral blood flow to the ischemic area. Ergotamine should not be used for migraine prophylaxis.
 
Ergotamine is contraindicated in patients with peripheral vascular disease (including thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease), luetic arteritis, severe arteriosclerosis, thrombophlebitis, and Raynaud's disease), coronary artery disease (including unstable or vasospastic angina, or predisposition to vasospastic reactions), sepsis, malnutrition, or uncontrolled hypertension. It is recommended that ergotamine not be given to patients with a history of myocardial infarction or in whom unrecognized coronary artery disease (CAD) is predicted by the presence of cardiac disease risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, current tobacco smoking, obesity, diabetes mellitus, strong family history of CAD, postmenopausal females, or males over 40 years of age), unless a cardiovascular evaluation provides sufficient evidence that the patient is reasonably free of ischemic heart disease. The elderly may be more susceptible to vasoconstrictive effects of ergot alkaloids. In general, dosing should be more cautious in the elderly, starting at the lower end of the dose range to account for differences in renal, hepatic, or cardiac systems as well as concomitant disease states and medications. Coadministration of ergotamine with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 is contraindicated due to the risk of acute ergot toxicity (see Drug Interactions). Serious and/or life-threatening peripheral ischemia has been associated with the coadministration of ergotamine with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors including protease inhibitors and macrolide antibiotics, with some cases resulting in limb amputation. Cerebral ischemia has occurred rarely in patients taking ergotamine with protease inhibitors (one case fatal). Because CYP3A4 inhibition elevates serum ergotamine concentrations, the risk for vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities is increased.
 
Ergotamine is extensively metabolized in the liver and excreted in the bile. The manufacturer considers hepatic impairment contraindication to ergotamine use. Those with hepatic disease may be at increased risk for developing ergot toxicity due to systemic accumulation of the drug. Use in severe pruritis (i.e., biliary tract disease or cholestasis) should be avoided.
 
Renal impairment, including renal failure, is considered a contraindication to ergotamine use by the manufacturer. Patients with severe renal impairment who receive ergotamine may develop symptoms of ergot poisoning because of impaired elimination. Use with caution in any patient with renal disease due to the vasoconstrictive effects of the drug.
 
Ergotamine should be used with caution in children, including adolescents; safe and effective use has not been established. Older children (>= 10 years) have been treated for severe migraine headaches with ergotamine. However, clinical data reveal poor efficacy rates. Ergotamine use in older children has been recommended to be reserved for cases where less toxic medications have failed to provide relief. Do not give ergotamine to young children or infants.
 
Ergotamine is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category X. Animal studies indicate that ergotamine inhibits fetal growth, and increases intrauterine deaths and resorption. Although teratogenic effects in humans have not been reported, ergotamine and other ergot alkaloids are not be administered during pregnancy because the potent oxytocic and uterine stimulant properties of this drug class will likely cause harm to the fetus.
 
Ergotamine should not be used during breast-feeding. Ergotamine is excreted into breast milk and may cause ergotism (vomiting, diarrhea, weak pulse, and unstable blood pressure) in nursing infants. Ergotamine also interferes with lactation by inhibiting prolactin concentrations.
 
Long-term use of ergot alkaloids such as ergotamine has been associated with abnormal heart valve findings including aortic and/or mitral regurgitation, mitral stenosis, severe tricuspid regurgitation, and pulmonary regurgitation. Chronic use of ergotamine preparations has caused fibrotic thickening of the aortic, mitral, tricuspid, and/or pulmonary valves. Retroperitoneal fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis have occurred in rare instances. Ergotamine preparations should be used cautiously in those with pulmonary disease or valvular heart disease.
 
Because ergotamine may cause vasoconstriction, patients should be advised to inform their health care provider of ergotamine usage prior to any surgeries or related procedures. Ergotamine may cause problems with plastic, cosmetic, or reconstructive surgery in particular; cyanosis, ischemia, or vasoconstriction in the skin or other tissues may occur if ergotamine has been ingested within 48 hours of the surgical procedure.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    coadministration with certain medications, coronary artery disease, hypertension, peripheral vascular disease, sepsis
    General Information
    Ergotamine is contraindicated with coadministration with certain medications, specifically strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, due to the risk for ergotism and other serious vasospastic adverse events. Coadministration of ergotamine with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., protease inhibitors, macrolides) has been associated with increased exposure to ergotamine and acute ergot toxicity (ergotism) characterized by vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities, with some cases resulting in amputation. There have been rare reports of cerebral ischemia in individuals on protease inhibitor therapy when ergotamine was coadministered, at least a single case resulting in death. Ergotamine is also contraindicated in individuals with peripheral vascular disease, coronary artery disease, hypertension, and sepsis.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Ergotamine is contraindicated in individuals with hepatic impairment or hepatic failure.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Ergotamine is contraindicated in individuals with renal impairment or renal failure.
    Headline
    labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy
    General Information
    Ergotamine is contraindicated during pregnancy, including during labor and obstetric delivery, due to its oxytocic effect, which is maximal in the third trimester. Ergotamine crosses the placenta in small amounts, but does not appear to be embryo-toxic in this quantity. However, prolonged vasoconstriction of uterine vessels and increased myometrial tone may contribute to the fetal growth restriction seen in animal models. Although ergotamine is not an established human teratogen, limited data indicate that in utero exposure to ergotamine during pregnancy may be associated with fetal malformations consistent with ischemic injury. The possibility of teratogenic potential in humans cannot be ruled out, particularly during prolonged administration or use of high doses.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Counsel patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking ergotamine due to the potential for adverse reactions in the breastfed child. Ergotamine is present in human milk and may cause symptoms of vomiting, diarrhea, weak pulse, and unstable blood pressure in a breastfed child. In addition, ergot derivatives inhibit prolactin and have the potential to decrease milk production. Alternative treatments for migraine, such as sumatriptan, are preferred.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Ergotamine is contraindicated during pregnancy, including during labor and obstetric delivery, due to its oxytocic effect, which is maximal in the third trimester. Ergotamine crosses the placenta in small amounts, but does not appear to be embryo-toxic in this quantity. However, prolonged vasoconstriction of uterine vessels and increased myometrial tone may contribute to the fetal growth restriction seen in animal models. Although ergotamine is not an established human teratogen, limited data indicate that in utero exposure to ergotamine during pregnancy may be associated with fetal malformations consistent with ischemic injury. The possibility of teratogenic potential in humans cannot be ruled out, particularly during prolonged administration or use of high doses.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with adagrasib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Almotriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and amiodarone. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and amiodarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Amphetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Amphetamines: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Angiotensin II: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and aprepitant/fosaprepitant. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with atazanavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with atazanavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and avacopan. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and methylene blue. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Benzphetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and berotralstat. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and lenacapavir. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bromocriptine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and bromocriptine, an ergotamine derivative, within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ceritinib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with chloramphenicol is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and ciprofloxacin. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and citalopram. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Cocaine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cocaine is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and conivaptan. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and crizotinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and cyclosporine. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with darunavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with darunavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with darunavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dextroamphetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and diltiazem. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
DOPamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and dronedarone. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Droxidopa: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and duvelisib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Eletriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with cobicistat is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ensitrelvir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
ePHEDrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
EPINEPHrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and erythromycin. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and escitalopram. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and fedratinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and fluconazole. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and fluoxetine. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, serotonin syndrome, and symptoms of serotonin excess, such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination, during concomitant use of ergotamine and fluvoxamine. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure and both medications enhance serotonergic activity. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and fosamprenavir. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Frovatriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during ergotamine treatment due to the risk for increased ergotamine exposure and adverse reactions. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and methylene blue. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with idelalisib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and imatinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and isavuconazonium. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isoproterenol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with isoproterenol is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with itraconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and lefamulin. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and lenacapavir. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with letermovir is contraindicated. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure and the risk for adverse effects. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ketoconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and linezolid. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with lonafarnib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ritonavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Methamphetamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and methylene blue. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Methylene Blue: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and methylene blue. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Midodrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with mifepristone is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and mirtazapine. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Naratriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with nefazodone is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with nelfinavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and netupitant. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nicotine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and nicotine. Nicotine may provoke vasoconstriction in some patients, increasing the risk for ischemic adverse effects.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and nilotinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ritonavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and ergotamine is contraindicated; consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may increase ergotamine exposure resulting in increased toxicity.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and nirogacestat. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nitrates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Nitroglycerin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oral nitrates and ergotamine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for ergot toxicity. Oral administration of nitrates markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is also known to precipitate angina pectoris and may cause vasoconstriction that reduces the efficacy of nitrates.
Norepinephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and fluoxetine. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and paroxetine. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Phentermine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with phentermine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with phentermine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with posaconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and propranolol. Propranolol may potentiate the vasoconstrictive action of ergotamine by blocking the vasodilating properties of epinephrine.
Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with relacorilant is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ribociclib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ribociclib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions including cerebral and peripheral ischemia during concomitant use of ergotamine and rilzabrutinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and ritlecitinib. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with ritonavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with saquinavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and sertraline. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
SUMAtriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with tipranavir is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Tobacco: (Major) Advise patients to avoid smoking tobacco while taking ergot alkaloids. Concurrent use of vasoconstrictors, such as nicotine, with ergot alkaloids may result in enhanced vasoconstriction. Nicotine acts indirectly as a sympathomimetic agent by releasing catecholamines, potentially resulting in effects such as hypertension, coronary spasm, coronary ischemia, or cardiac arrhythmias, which may be additive with ergot alkaloids.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and verapamil. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with tucatinib is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Vasopressors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and verapamil. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and vilazodone. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with clarithromycin is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with voriconazole is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome and symptoms of serotonin excess such as weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination during concomitant use of ergotamine and vortioxetine. Both medications enhance serotonergic activity.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of ergotamine and voxelotor. Concomitant use may increase ergotamine exposure. Ergotamine is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
ZOLMitriptan: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Nausea/vomiting are common gastrointestinal complaints, occurring in up to 10% of patients receiving usual doses of ergotamine. This reaction is the result of the potent emetic properties of ergotamine, which originate in the chemoreceptor trigger zone (CTZ). The frequency and/or severity of this adverse reaction may be reduced by the concomitant administration of an antiemetic agent with ergotamine combinations. Other gastrointestinal side effects of ergotamine may include diarrhea, xerostomia, and rarely, pancreatitis or ischemic colitis.It is important to note that effects related to the vasoconstrictive properties of ergotamine may occur at therapeutic doses including abdominal pain, myalgia, paresthesias (numbness and tingling), and weakness in the extremities. Precordial pain, transient changes in heart rate, pruritus and localized edema may also occur, particularly in those sensitive to the drug. These reactions may also occur as part of the symptomatology of ergotamine toxicity. Prolonged administration or excessive dosages may result in ergotamine toxicity. While ergot-toxicity has occurred in patients taking less than 5 mg of ergotamine, toxicity is more likely to occur in those patients taking more than 15 mg/24 hours or 40 mg within a few days (manufacturers information). Symptoms of ergotism include angina, asthenia, chest pain (unspecified), coronary vasospasm, muscle cramps (claudication), myalgia, paresthesias, and palpitations or changes in heart rate (e.g., sinus bradycardia or sinus tachycardia). Peripheral vasoconstriction of the arteries may result in hypothermia or tissue necrosis, which may lead to gangrene. Other serious complications include hypertension (portal), mesenteric artery thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and renal tubular necrosis. Symptoms such as confusion, depression, drowsiness, and seizures rarely occur. Overuse of suppository formulations of the drug may cause the above symptoms as well as rectal or anal ulcerations. Patients should report any of the described symptoms promptly to their prescriber and the drug should be discontinued.Drug dependence may occur in some individuals after prolonged use of ergotamine. Withdrawal symptoms such as dysphoria and/or rebound headaches have been reported following abrupt discontinuation of the drug. Patients should be monitored for possible physiological dependence and/or withdrawal while receiving ergotamine.Excessive dosing or prolonged administration of ergotamine may inhibit lactation. This effect is related to ergotamine's suppression of prolactin.Although specific effects of ergotamine are not attributable to teratogenesis, it is known that the drug may induce fetal harm. Retarded fetal growth and an increase in intrauterine fetal death, including fetal abortion, have been seen in animals. Ergotamine stimulates uterine contractions and is a potent vasoconstrictor of the placental vascular bed.Long-term use of ergot alkaloids such as ergotamine has been associated with the development of cardiac valvulopathy. Such effects have included aortic and/or mitral regurgitation, mitral stenosis, severe tricuspid regurgitation, and pulmonary regurgitation. Chronic use of ergotamine preparations has caused fibrotic thickening of the aortic, mitral, tricuspid, and/or pulmonary valves. Retroperitoneal fibrosis and pulmonary fibrosis have occurred in rare instances.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, bowel ischemia, colitis, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea and vomiting are common gastrointestinal (GI) complaints of ergotamine recipients at usual doses for migraine treatment. This reaction is the result of the potent emetic properties of ergotamine, which originate in the chemoreceptor trigger zone. The frequency and/or severity of nausea/vomiting may be reduced by the concomitant administration of an antiemetic agent with ergotamine. Other GI side effects of ergotamine may include diarrhea. Other potential serious GI complications related to vascular constriction include severe abdominal pain with mesenteric ischemia. Ischemic colitis (bowel ischemia) due to ergot alkaloid-induced vasospasm has been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bowel ischemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bradycardia, cyanosis, hypertension, musculoskeletal pain, peripheral vasoconstriction, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Vasoconstrictive complications of a serious nature may occur with ergotamine at times. These include ischemia, cyanosis, absence of pulse, cold extremities, gangrene, precordial distress and pain, ECG changes, and musculoskeletal pain. Although these effects occur most commonly with long-term therapy at relatively high doses, they have also been reported with short-term or normal doses. Ergotism is manifested by intense arterial vasoconstriction, producing signs and symptoms of peripheral vasoconstriction. In chronic intoxication with ergot derivatives, headache, intermittent claudication, muscle pains, numbness, coldness and pallor of the digits may occur. If the condition is allowed to progress untreated, gangrene can result. While most cases of ergotism associated with ergotamine treatment result from overdosage, some cases have involved apparent hypersensitivity. There are few reports of ergotism among individuals taking doses within the recommended limits or for brief periods of time. Although signs and symptoms of ergotism rarely develop even after long term intermittent use of the medication, take care to remain within the limits of recommended dosage. Other cardiovascular adverse effects reported with ergotamine include transient sinus tachycardia or bradycardia and hypertension.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      cyanosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasoconstriction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    medication overuse headache, physiological dependence, withdrawal
    General Information
    Drug dependence may occur in some individuals after prolonged use of ergotamine. Withdrawal symptoms such as dysphoria and/or rebound headaches have been reported after abrupt discontinuation of the drug. Monitor patients for possible physiological dependence and/or withdrawal while receiving ergotamine. Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including ergotamine, may lead to medication overuse headache. Patients may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise patients about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of ergotamine or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      medication overuse headache
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    cardiac valvulopathy, pulmonary fibrosis, retroperitoneal fibrosis
    General Information
    There have been a few reports of ergotamine and caffeine therapy recipients developing retroperitoneal fibrosis and/or pleuro-pulmonary fibrosis. There have also been rare reports of cardiac valvulopathy (fibrotic thickening of the aortic, mitral, tricuspid, and/or pulmonary valves) with long-term continuous use of ergotamine and caffeine therapy. Do not use ergotamine for chronic daily administration.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac valvulopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      retroperitoneal fibrosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    paresthesias, vertigo, weakness
    General Information
    Neurological adverse events reported with ergotamine include numbness, paresthesias, vertigo, and weakness.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    edema, pruritus
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions, including pruritus and localized edema, have been associated with ergotamine use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    fetal death, spontaneous fetal abortion, uterine contractions
    General Information
    Ergotamine may cause fetal harm. Retarded fetal growth and an increase in intrauterine fetal death, including spontaneous fetal abortion, have been seen in animals. Ergotamine stimulates uterine contractions and is a potent vasoconstrictor of the placental vascular bed.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      spontaneous fetal abortion
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      uterine contractions
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      fetal death
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Ergotamine is an ergot alkaloid indicated for the treatment of acute migraine. Guidelines classify ergotamine as having possible efficacy for the treatment of acute migraine. Ergotamine can produce serious cardiovascular vasoconstrictive complications, including coronary vasoconstriction with ischemic changes in people with coronary artery disease. Ergotamine is contraindicated for coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, which can elevate ergotamine concentrations and increase the risk for vasospasm-induced peripheral or cerebral ischemia. Ergotamine was FDA-approved in 1960.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Ergotamine binds at alpha-adrenergic, serotonergic, and dopaminergic D2 receptors. It is hypothesized that serotonin agonist activity at 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D, and possibly 5-HT1F receptors produces meningeal vasoconstriction and inhibits trigeminal neurotransmission. Ergotamine can cause vasoconstriction by stimulating alpha-adrenergic and serotonergic receptors. Actions at 5-HT1A and dopamine D2 receptors by ergotamine likely lead to the adverse effects of nausea, vomiting, or dysphoria.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Other Route(s)
    Description
    Sublingual Route
The absorption of ergotamine is incomplete and erratic. Compared with intravenous bioavailability (100%), bioavailability is less than 1% following sublingual administration. Peak plasma concentrations occur 1 to 2 hours following administration.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of sublingual ergotamine in hepatic impairment are unknown. Ergotamine is contraindicated in people with hepatic impairment since concentrations/exposure of ergotamine is expected to increase, which may lead to toxicity.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of sublingual ergotamine in renal impairment are unknown. Ergotamine is contraindicated in people with renal impairment.
  Text
  Ergotamine is administered sublingually. It is extensively metabolized in the liver, primarily via CYP3A4 isoenzymes. About 90% of the metabolites are eliminated in the bile. Unchanged ergotamine is secreted erratically in the saliva; trace amounts appear in the feces and urine. The elimination half-life is roughly 2 hours; however, the medication may be stored in some tissues, which would account for the long-lasting therapeutic and toxic effects of the medication.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4
Ergotamine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of ergotamine with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated. Ergotamine has been shown to be an inhibitor of CYP3A catalyzed reactions.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer at the first sign of a migraine attack. Ergotamine is more effective if taken early in a migraine attack.
Place tablet under the tongue and allow to dissolve; do not chew. Instruct recipient not to swallow the saliva until the tablet is completely absorbed.
Instruct the treated individual to not exceed maximum daily or weekly dosage limits.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    6 mg/24 hours or per attack SL; not to exceed 10 mg/week SL.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    6 mg/24 hours or per attack SL; not to exceed 10 mg/week SL.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Ergotamine is contraindicated in people with hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Ergotamine is contraindicated in people with renal impairment.
