=== Avacincaptad Pegol — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5479)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Avacincaptad pegol is a complement C5 inhibitor, indicated for the treatment of geographic atrophy (GA) secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD).

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 2 mg intravitreally once monthly.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): endophthalmitis, photopsia, retinal detachment, vitreous hemorrhage, blurred vision, ocular hemorrhage, ocular pain, visual impairment

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Avacincaptad pegol is contraindicated for use in individuals with periocular infection, ocular infection, and active intraocular or ocular inflammation. pregnancy There are no adequate...

AVACINCAPTAD PEGOL

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

IZERVAY

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of geographic atrophy (GA) secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD)

Intravitreal dosage
Adults


2 mg (0.1 mL of 20 mg/mL solution) administered by intravitreal injection to each affected eye once monthly (approximately every 28 +/- 7 days).


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Avacincaptad pegol is contraindicated for use in individuals with periocular infection, ocular infection, and active intraocular or ocular inflammation.

pregnancy


There are no adequate and well controlled studies of avacincaptad pegol administration during pregnancy. Use may be considered after an assessment of the risks and benefits. There was no evidence of adverse effects after intravenous administration of avacincaptad pegol to pregnant rats and rabbits through the period of organogenesis at doses 5.5 and 3.4 times, respectively, the human exposure, based on area under the curve (AUC), following a single 2 mg intravitreal dose.


breast-feeding


Use avacincaptad pegol with caution during breast-feeding. There is no information regarding the presence of avacincaptad pegol in human milk, the effects of the drug on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for avacincaptad pegol, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from avacincaptad pegol.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate and well controlled studies of avacincaptad pegol administration during pregnancy. Use may be considered after an assessment of the risks and benefits. There was no evidence of adverse effects after intravenous administration of avacincaptad pegol to pregnant rats and rabbits through the period of organogenesis at doses 5.5 and 3.4 times, respectively, the human exposure, based on area under the curve (AUC), following a single 2 mg intravitreal dose.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Avacincaptad Pegol products.

Adverse Reaction
blepharitis, keratitis


In clinical trials, blepharitis was reported in 2% to 3% of patients receiving injections of intravitreal avacincaptad pegol. By treatment Month 12, 2% of drug recipients developed blepharitis compared to less than 1% of individuals in the sham group. Over 24 months, the rates increased to 3% for the avacincaptad pegol group and less than 1% for the sham group. During the 24-month study, punctate keratitis including keratitis was reported in 10% of patients receiving avacincaptad pegol compared to 8% of patients in the sham group.


endophthalmitis, photopsia, retinal detachment, vitreous hemorrhage


In clinical trials for up to 24 months, photopsia, optic ischemic neuropathy, vitreous hemorrhage, vitreal cells, vitritis and endophthalmitis were reported in less than 1% of patients treated with avacincaptad pegol. Intravitreal injections, including those with avacincaptad pegol, have been associated with endophthalmitis and retinal detachment. Instruct patients to report any symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis (e.g., eye pain, redness of the eye, photophobia, blurring of vision) or retinal detachment without delay and manage appropriately.


blurred vision, ocular hemorrhage, ocular pain, visual impairment


Adverse reactions reported in 2% or more of patients receiving avacincaptad pegol were conjunctival or ocular hemorrhage (13% to 17%); blurred vision (8% to 14%), including visual impairment, vision acuity reduced, and visual acuity reduced transiently; ocular pain (4% to 7%); and vitreous floaters (2% to 4%). Other common adverse reactions reported included retinal hemorrhage (4%) and corneal abrasion (2%) during the 24-month study.


ocular hypertension


In clinical trials, increased intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension) was reported in 9% to 13% of patients receiving injections of intravitreal avacincaptad pegol. By treatment Month 12, 9% of drug recipients developed intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension) compared to 1% of individuals in the sham group. Over 24 months, the rates increased to 13% for the avacincaptad pegol group and 1% for the sham group. After the injection, monitor intraocular pressure and optic nerve head perfusion; medically manage any abnormality as needed.


macular degeneration


In clinical trials, the use of avacincaptad pegol was associated with increased rates of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) or choroidal neovascularization. By treatment Month 12, 7% of drug recipients developed neovascular (wet) AMD or choroidal neovascularization compared to 4% of individuals in the sham group. Over 24 months, the rates increased to 12% for the avacincaptad pegol group and 9% for the sham group. Monitor individuals for signs of neovascular AMD.


Description

Avacincaptad pegol is a complement C5 inhibitor, indicated for the treatment of geographic atrophy (GA) secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD). In clinical trials, the mean rate of geographic atrophy growth was significantly reduced in patients treated with avacincaptad pegol compared to patients who received a sham treatment (0.05 to 0.1 mm/year). Intravitreal injections such as avacincaptad pegol may be associated with endophthalmitis, retinal detachments, neovascular AMD, and increased intraocular pressure; monitor patients for the development of these adverse reactions after treatment.

Mechanism Of Action

Avacincaptad pegol is an RNA aptamer, a PEGylated oligonucleotide that binds to and inhibits complement protein C5. By inhibiting C5, avacincaptad pegol may prevent its cleavage to C5a and C5b thus decreasing membrane attack complex (MAC) formation.

Pharmacokinetics

Avacincaptad pegol is administered by intravitreal injection. The estimated apparent systemic half-life of avacincaptad pegol is approximately 8 days. Avacincaptad pegol is expected to be catabolized by endonucleases and exonucleases to oligonucleotides of shorter lengths.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Other Route(s)

Intravitreal route
After monthly dosing of avacincaptad pegol, steady-state maximum avacincaptad pegol plasma concentrations (Cmax) are estimated to occur approximately 3 days post-dose and geometric mean (GeoCV%) free avacincaptad pegol plasma Cmax is estimated to be 347 ng/mL (59%) in geographic atrophy secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD) patients. The AUC days after monthly dosing is 4,726 day x ng/mL. Plasma concentrations of avacincaptad pegol are predicted to be approximately 1,400-fold lower than vitreal concentrations.

Hepatic Impairment

The effect of hepatic impairment to any degree on the pharmacokinetics of avacincaptad pegol is unknown.

Renal Impairment

The effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of avacincaptad pegol is unknown.

Geriatric

There were no clinically significant differences on the pharmacokinetics of avacincaptad pegol based on age.

Gender Differences

There were no clinically significant differences on the pharmacokinetics of avacincaptad pegol based on gender.

Obesity

There were no clinically significant differences on the pharmacokinetics of avacincaptad pegol based on body weight.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
NOTE: Intravitreal injections, including those with avacincaptad pegol, may be associated with endophthalmitis and retinal detachments. Proper aseptic injection techniques must always be used when administering avacincaptad pegol in order to minimize the risk of endophthalmitis. Instruct patients to report any symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis (e.g., eye pain, redness of the eye, photophobia, blurring of vision) or retinal detachment without delay and manage appropriately.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Avacincaptad pegol is a clear to slightly opalescent, colorless to slightly yellowish solution. Do not use if the liquid looks cloudy, contains particles, or is dark yellow.


Other Injectable Administration

NOTE: Avacincaptad pegol is intended for use under the guidance of a qualified health care professional.
 
Intravitreal Product Preparation
Use each vial and syringe for the treatment of a single eye. If the contralateral eye requires treatment, use a new vial and syringe and change the sterile field, syringe, gloves, drapes, eyelid speculum, filter needle, and injection needle before administration to the other eye.
Prior to use, allow the product to reach room temperature, 20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F). The vial may be kept at room temperature for up to 24 hours. Keep the vial in the original carton to protect from light.
Gather the supplies needed:
One vial for use in a single eye. Do not shake the vial.
One sterile 5-micron filter needle 18-gauge x 1 1/2 inch.
One sterile 1 mL Luer-lock syringe with a 0.1 mL dose mark.
One sterile 30-gauge x 1/2 inch needle. Note: A 30-gauge injection needle is recommended to avoid increased injection forces that could be experienced with smaller diameter needles.
Alcohol swab.
Use aseptic technique to carry out the following preparation steps:
Place the vial upright on a flat surface for about 1 minute after removal from packaging to make sure all liquid settles at the bottom of the vial. Gently tap the vial with your finger to remove any liquid that may stick to the top of the vial.
Remove the flip-off cap from the vial and clean the vial septum with an alcohol swab.
Firmly attach the included 18-gauge x 1 1/2 inch filter needle onto the 1 mL Luer lock syringe and twist clockwise to secure.
Push the filter needle all the way into the center of the vial septum. Tilt the vial slightly so that the needle touches the bottom edge of the vial. Rotate the filter needle so that the bevel is submerged into the liquid to avoid introduction of air.
Slowly withdraw all the liquid from the vial. Draw the plunger rod back far enough to completely empty the filter needle.
Disconnect the filter needle from the syringe and dispose of it. Do not use the filter needle for intravitreal injection.
Firmly attach the 30-gauge x 1/2 inch injection needle onto the Luer lock syringe. Carefully remove the plastic needle shield from the needle by pulling it straight off.
Check for air bubbles by holding the syringe with the needle pointing up. If there are any air bubbles, gently tap the syringe with your finger until the bubbles rise to the top.
Slowly depress the plunger to expel the air from the syringe and align the rubber stopper tip to the 0.1 mL dose mark.
Administer the injection immediately after preparing the dose.
 
Intravitreal Injection Procedure
Prior to the intravitreal injection, monitor patients for elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) using tonometry. If necessary, ocular hypotensive medication can be given to lower the IOP.
The intravitreal injection procedure must be carried out under controlled aseptic conditions, which includes the use of surgical hand disinfection, sterile gloves, a sterile drape, and a sterile eyelid speculum (or equivalent). Administer adequate anesthesia and a broad-spectrum topical microbicide prior to the injection.
Inject slowly until the rubber stopper reaches the end of the syringe to deliver the volume of 0.1 mL. Confirm delivery of the full dose by checking that the rubber stopper has reached the end of the syringe barrel.
Immediately after the intravitreal injection, monitor patients for elevation in intraocular pressure (IOP). Appropriate monitoring may consist of a check for perfusion of the optic nerve head or tonometry.
Dispose of any unused medicinal product or waste material in accordance with local regulations.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

2 mg intravitreally once monthly.

Geriatric

2 mg intravitreally once monthly.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Izervay 20mg/mL Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier