=== Istradefylline (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2813)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Istradefylline is a xanthine derivative and an oral adenosine A2A receptor antagonist.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 40 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, confusion, delirium, hallucinations, insomnia, mania, paranoia, psychosis

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. psychotic disorder People with a major psychotic disorder should not be treated with istradefylline due to the risk of exacerbating psychosis. People receiving istradefylline should be...

Brand Names
  - NOURIANZ

Dosage Forms
  - NOURIANZ 20mg Tablet
  - NOURIANZ 40mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        20 mg PO once daily, initially. May increase the dose to 40 mg PO once daily based on clinical response and tolerability. Initial dose titration is not required. Max: 40 mg/day. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of "off" episodes in Parkinson disease as an adjunct to carbidopa/levodopa

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    psychotic disorder
    General Information
    People with a major psychotic disorder should not be treated with istradefylline due to the risk of exacerbating psychosis. People receiving istradefylline should be monitored closely for these effects, which have included hallucinations and abnormal thinking or behaviors. Consider dosage reduction or discontinuation of treatment if a patient develops psychotic behaviors or hallucinations while taking istradefylline.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Use istradefylline with caution in people with hepatic impairment. People with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) require a lower maximal daily dosage of istradefylline due to increased drug exposure; monitor these people for increased adverse reactions to istradefylline. The use of istradefylline in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure has not been studied. Use in these populations should be avoided.
    Headline
    tobacco smoking
    General Information
    Tobacco smoking induces hepatic microsomal enzymes, which increases the systemic clearance of istradefylline. People who smoke tobacco at the equivalent of 20 cigarettes per day or more have significantly decreased steady-state systemic exposure to istradefylline. Therefore, these individuals should be initiated at a higher dosage of istradefylline in order to have the desired clinical effect. If the smoking status changes or the patient pursues smoking cessation, the provider should monitor the patient for adverse effects and the need for a reduced dosage.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Use of istradefylline during pregnancy is not recommended. In animal studies, oral administration of istradefylline during pregnancy resulted in teratogenicity (fetal structural abnormalities including external, visceral, and skeletal malformations, embryo-fetal and offspring mortality, and growth deficits) at clinically relevant exposures and in the absence of maternal toxicity. The teratogenic effects of istradefylline in pregnant rabbits were substantially greater when administered in combination with levodopa; carbidopa than when administered alone. Plasma exposure at the lowest dose of istradefylline tested (50 mg/kg/day) in rabbits was less than plasma exposure in humans at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). Plasma exposure at the no-effect dose for adverse effects on pre- and postnatal development in rats (6 mg/kg/day) is less than that in humans at the MRHD.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with istradefylline. Istradefylline may cause fetal harm. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception during treatment.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use caution when considering istradefylline therapy during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of istradefylline in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Istradefylline was present in the milk of lactating rats at concentrations up to 10-times that in maternal plasma. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for istradefylline and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from istradefylline or the patient's underlying condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Use of istradefylline during pregnancy is not recommended. In animal studies, oral administration of istradefylline during pregnancy resulted in teratogenicity (fetal structural abnormalities including external, visceral, and skeletal malformations, embryo-fetal and offspring mortality, and growth deficits) at clinically relevant exposures and in the absence of maternal toxicity. The teratogenic effects of istradefylline in pregnant rabbits were substantially greater when administered in combination with levodopa; carbidopa than when administered alone. Plasma exposure at the lowest dose of istradefylline tested (50 mg/kg/day) in rabbits was less than plasma exposure in humans at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). Plasma exposure at the no-effect dose for adverse effects on pre- and postnatal development in rats (6 mg/kg/day) is less than that in humans at the MRHD.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use caution when considering istradefylline therapy during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of istradefylline in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Istradefylline was present in the milk of lactating rats at concentrations up to 10-times that in maternal plasma. Consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the clinical need for istradefylline and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from istradefylline or the patient's underlying condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. If istradefylline is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with istradefylline may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If istradefylline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. If istradefylline is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If istradefylline is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Adagrasib: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with adagrasib as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Istradefylline is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong CYP3A inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of istradefylline and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of istradefylline. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Istradefylline inhibits P-gp. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC and Cmax of afatinib was 119% and 104%, respectively, when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% and 105% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. If istradefylline is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If istradefylline is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and istradefylline due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with istradefylline, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for atorvastatin-related adverse reactions (i.e., myopathy/rhabdomyolysis) if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary as atorvastatin exposure may be increased. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Coadministration of atorvastatin and istradefylline 40 mg daily increased the atorvastatin exposure by 1.5-fold.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with clarithromycin as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with apalutamide as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Apalutamide is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of istradefylline. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus istradefylline may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; istradefylline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. If istradefylline is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If istradefylline is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Atazanavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with atazanavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with atazanavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study. (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with cobicistat as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for atorvastatin-related adverse reactions (i.e., myopathy/rhabdomyolysis) if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary as atorvastatin exposure may be increased. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-gp. Coadministration of atorvastatin and istradefylline 40 mg daily increased the atorvastatin exposure by 1.5-fold.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals if benzhydrocodone is administered with istradefylline 40 mg daily. Consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Concurrent use may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Discontinuation of istradefylline in a patient taking benzhydrocodone may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP3A4; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with istradefylline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with carbamazepine as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Additionally, taking these drugs together may increase carbamazepine plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in adverse events. Carbamazepine is a substrate of CYP3A4 with a narrow therapeutic index and a strong inducer. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Ceritinib: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ceritinib as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with chloramphenicol as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If istradefylline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Monitor for cisapride-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with clarithromycin as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with istradefylline 40 mg daily and monitor for adverse reactions. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A4; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Cobicistat: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with cobicistat as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase cobimetinib exposure. Cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; there was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and istradefylline due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Cyclosporine therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended when administered concurrently with istradefylline 40 mg daily. Use of these medications together may result in elevated cyclosporine serum concentrations, causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Increased serum concentrations of dabigatran are possible when dabigatran, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, is coadministered with istradefylline, a P-gp inhibitor. Although the coadministration of dabigatran and istradefylline may have no effect on the pharmacokinetics of dabigatran or istradefylline in healthy subjects, patients should be monitored for increased adverse effects of dabigatran. When dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery, avoid coadministration with P-gp inhibitors like istradefylline in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute. When dabigatran is used in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute), avoid coadministration with istradefylline, as serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher than when administered to patients with normal renal function. P-gp inhibition and renal impairment are the major independent factors that result in increased exposure to dabigatran.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with istradefylline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with darunavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with cobicistat as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study. (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with darunavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with cobicistat as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study. (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with darunavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with istradefylline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Quinidine is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Monitor for digoxin-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline is necessary as digoxin exposure may be increased. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate; istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration of digoxin and istradefylline 40 mg daily increased the exposure of digoxin by 21%.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A4 substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor and doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with doxorubicin due to increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor and doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Edoxaban: (Major) If coadministered with istradefylline, a weak P-gp inhibitor, dosage reduction of edoxaban, a P-gp substrate, may be necessary for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE). An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with istradefylline. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of istradefylline. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of istradefylline; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Monitor for efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for efavirenz-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Eliglustat: (Major) In poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs), coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily and eliglustat is not recommended. In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias) in these patients. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with cobicistat as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with istradefylline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with cobicistat as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with istradefylline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with istradefylline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with encorafenib as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Istradefylline is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong CYP3A inducer in a drug interaction study.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with istradefylline due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ensitrelvir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Istradefylline is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong CYP3A inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with enzalutamide as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Enzalutamide is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
Ethosuximide: (Moderate) Monitor for ethosuximide-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Ethosuximide is a CYP3A substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A substrate.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and Istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and istradefylline 40 mg daily should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A4 inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. If istradefylline is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If istradefylline is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or istradefylline; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A4 inhibitors, including istradefylline 40 mg daily, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A4 inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with fosamprenavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with fosphenytoin as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Fosphenytoin is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If istradefylline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If istradefylline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If istradefylline is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Idelalisib: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with idelalisib as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Itraconazole: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with itraconazole as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of istradefylline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ketoconazole as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with ketoconazole in a drug interaction study.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with clarithromycin as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; istradefylline may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is also a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to a maximum of 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with istradefylline as concurrent use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of lemborexant with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ketoconazole as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with ketoconazole in a drug interaction study.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and istradefylline; concurrent use may increase the exposure of both drugs and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline and reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2; closely monitor patients for adverse reactions from both drugs. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing istradefylline. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; istradefylline is a CYP3A4 substrate and weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with istradefylline. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with istradefylline. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ritonavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with lumacaftor; ivacaftor as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with lumacaftor; ivacaftor as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with istradefylline. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Methadone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of methadone with istradefylline 40 mg daily may increase methadone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of methadone until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of istradefylline could decrease methadone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to methadone. If istradefylline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Methadone is a substrate for CYP3A4; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and istradefylline. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for midazolam-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on midazolam exposure when administered with istradefylline 20 mg daily.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with mifepristone as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with mitotane as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Mitotane is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for morphine-related adverse effects if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase morphine exposure. Morphine is a substrate of P-gp and istradefylline is an inhibitor of P-gp.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase naldemedine exposure. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and istradefylline. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with nefazodone as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with nelfinavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ritonavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with istradefylline 40 mg daily due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. If istradefylline is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If istradefylline is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with phenobarbital as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Phenobarbital is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with phenobarbital as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Phenobarbital is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with phenytoin as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Phenytoin is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Monitor for pimozide-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Pimozide is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Posaconazole: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with posaconazole as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of istradefylline with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with primidone as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Primidone is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and istradefylline due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for propafenone-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Propafenone is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for quinidine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Quinidine is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for ranolazine-related adverse reactions and titrate according to clinical response if coadministration of istradefylline is necessary. Coadministration may increase the exposure of ranolazine. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with relacorilant as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Istradefylline is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong CYP3A inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral istradefylline. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer istradefylline at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral istradefylline. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is unavoidable, administer istradefylline at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with istradefylline due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ribociclib as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ribociclib as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with rifampin as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Rifampin is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with rifampin in a drug interaction study.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with rifapentine as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Istradefylline is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with istradefylline; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with ritonavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Saquinavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with saquinavir/ritonavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Silodosin: (Moderate) Monitor for silodosin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase silodosin exposure. Silodosin is a P-gp substrate; istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of istradefylline. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with St. John's Wort as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. St. John's Wort is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if istradefylline 40 mg daily must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. If istradefylline is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If istradefylline is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with istradefylline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tenofovir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase tenofovir exposure. Tenofovir is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with tipranavir as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Tobacco: (Major) The initial and maximal recommended istradefylline dosage in patients who smoke 20 or more cigarettes per day (or the equivalent amount of another tobacco product) is 40 mg once daily. Tobacco smoking has been observed to decrease istradefylline overall exposure by 38% to 54% which may reduce its efficacy.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; istradefylline may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-gp and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of istradefylline 40 mg daily, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with istradefylline and consider appropriate dose reduction of triazolam if clinically indicated. Coadministration may increase triazolam exposure. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and istradefylline is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with tucatinib as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with istradefylline. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; istradefylline is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with istradefylline due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of istradefylline. Istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor; venetoclax is a P-gp substrate. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and istradefylline is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with istradefylline 40 mg daily is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; istradefylline administered as 40 mg daily is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor. There was no effect on drug exposure when istradefylline 20 mg daily was coadministered with a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with clarithromycin as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Voriconazole: (Major) Do not exceed 20 mg once daily of istradefylline if administered with voriconazole as istradefylline exposure and adverse effects may increase. Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Istradefylline exposure was increased by 2.5-fold when administered with a strong inhibitor in a drug interaction study.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with istradefylline is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. Istradefylline is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    A few changes in laboratory investigations were reported during 4 randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials of istradefylline in patients with Parkinson's disease taking a stable dose of levodopa and a DOPA carboxylase inhibitor. The incidence of increased alkaline phosphatase was 1% among patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg, 2% with istradefylline 40 mg, and 1% with placebo. The incidence of increased blood glucose was 1% during treatment with istradefylline 20 mg, 2% with istradefylline 40 mg, and 0% with placebo. The incidence of increased blood urea was 1% during treatment with istradefylline 20 mg, 2% with istradefylline 40 mg, and 0% with placebo.
    Headline
    dizziness, dyskinesia
    General Information
    Istradefylline in combination with levodopa may cause dyskinesia or exacerbate pre-existing dyskinesia. During 4 randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials of istradefylline in patients with Parkinson's disease taking a stable dose of levodopa and a DOPA carboxylase inhibitor (e.g., carbidopa), dyskinesia occurred in 15% of patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg, 17% of patients treated with istradefylline 40 mg, and 8% of patients treated with placebo. Dyskinesia was the most common reason for drug discontinuation. Dizziness occurred in 3% of patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg, 6% of patients treated with istradefylline 40 mg, and 4% of patients treated with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    agitation, confusion, delirium, hallucinations, insomnia, mania, paranoia, psychosis
    General Information
    Istradefylline may exacerbate psychosis, and patients with a major psychotic disorder should not be treated with the drug. During 4 randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials of istradefylline in patients with Parkinson's disease taking a stable dose of levodopa and a DOPA carboxylase inhibitor (e.g., carbidopa), hallucinations occurred in 2% of patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg, 6% of patients treated with istradefylline 40 mg, and 3% of patients treated with placebo. Hallucinations were visual, oflactory, somatic, and auditory. Abnormal thinking and behavior (including paranoia, delusions, confusion, mania, disorientation, aggressive behavior, agitation, or delirium) occurred in 1% of patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg, 2% of patients treated with istradefylline 40 mg, and 1% of patients treated with placebo. Consider dose reduction or discontinuation if a patient develops hallucinations or psychotic behaviors while taking istradefylline. Insomnia occurred in 1% of patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg, 6% of patients treated with istradefylline 40 mg, and 4% of patients treated with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paranoia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    impulse control symptoms
    General Information
    Intense urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, intense urges to spend money, binge or compulsive eating, or other urges may occur in patients treated with istradefylline and other medications for Parkinson's disease, including levodopa. Patients may lack the ability to control urges. During 4 randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials of istradefylline in patients with Parkinson's disease taking a stable dose of levodopa and a DOPA carboxylase inhibitor, impulse control symptoms occurred in 1 patient treated with istradefylline 40 mg (0.3%) compared to no patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg or placebo. In some reported postmarketing cases, urges stopped when the dose of istradefylline was reduced or the medication was discontinued. Ask patients and caregivers about the development of new or increased impulse control symptoms or compulsive behaviors. Consider dose reduction or discontinuation of istradefylline if the patient develops such urges.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impulse control symptoms
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, nausea
    General Information
    During 4 randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials of istradefylline in patients with Parkinson's disease taking a stable dose of levodopa and a DOPA carboxylase inhibitor, constipation occurred in 5% of patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg, 6% of patients treated with istradefylline 40 mg, and 3% of patients treated with placebo. Nausea occurred in 4% of patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg, 6% of patients treated with istradefylline 40 mg, and 5% of patients treated with placebo. The incidence of diarrhea was 1% during treatment with istradefylline 20 mg, 2% with istradefylline 40 mg, and 1% with placebo. The incidence of decreased appetite was 1% during treatment with istradefylline 20 mg, 3% with istradefylline 40 mg, and 1% with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash
    General Information
    During 4 randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials of istradefylline in patients with Parkinson's disease taking a stable dose of levodopa and a DOPA carboxylase inhibitor, rash (unspecified) occurred in 1% of patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg, 2% of patients treated with istradefylline 40 mg, and 1% of patients treated with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection
    General Information
    During 4 randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials of istradefylline in patients with Parkinson's disease taking a stable dose of levodopa and a DOPA carboxylase inhibitor, upper respiratory tract inflammation or infection occurred in 1% of patients treated with istradefylline 20 mg, 2% of patients treated with istradefylline 40 mg, and no patients treated with placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    libido increase
    General Information
    Libido increase has been reported during postmarketing experience with istradefylline.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Istradefylline is a xanthine derivative and an oral adenosine A2A receptor antagonist. Istradefylline is approved for use as an adjuvant to levodopa-carbidopa therapy in adult patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) experiencing 'off' episodes. The efficacy of istradefylline was established in 4 placebo-controlled, randomized trials. In these trials, patients continued levodopa treatment with or without concomitant PD medications, including dopamine agonists, COMT inhibitors, MAO-B inhibitors, anticholinergics, and/or amantadine, provided these medications were stable. In all trials, istradefylline significantly improved daily awake "off" time relative to placebo. Decreases from baseline in the mean percentage of awake "off" hours were observed during treatment with istradefylline 20 mg/day (-4.57%, p = 0.025) and istradefylline 40 mg/day (-6.78%, p = 0.007). Awake "off" hours were reduced from baseline, with mean differences of -0.65 hours (p = 0.028) and -0.76 hours (p = 0.006) for istradefylline 20 mg daily regimens and -0.92 hours (p = 0.002) and -0.74 (p = 0.008) for istradefylline 40 mg daily regimens. Patients treated with istradefylline experienced additional increases from baseline in "on" time without troublesome dyskinesia compared to patients treated with placebo. There is a potential for the drug to cause or exacerbate hallucinations or psychosis. Istradefylline was approved by the FDA in August 2019.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Istradefylline is an adenosine A2A receptor antagonist that acts through a non-dopaminergic mechanism to improve motor function. The precise mechanism by which istradefylline exerts its therapeutic effect in Parkinson's disease is unknown. Blockade of the striatal adenosine A2A receptors on medium spiny neurons located in an indirect pathway between the striatum to the globus pallidus decreases excessive pathway activation. This indirect output pathway is known to be overactive in Parkinson's disease due to dopaminergic cell degeneration in the substantia nigra pars compacta and a lack of inhibition normally mediated by the nigrostriatal pathway. Preclinical data have suggested potential neuroprotective effects of A2A receptor antagonists; however, this potential benefit of these drugs remains to be proven in human subjects.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Istradefylline exhibits dose-proportional pharmacokinetics after multiple oral doses ranging from 20 mg to 80 mg. Tmax is approximately 4 hours under fasting conditions. AUC increased 1.25-fold when istradefylline was given with a high-fat meal compared to the fasted state. Cmax increased by 1.64-fold and Tmax decreased by 1 hour when istradefylline was given with a high-fat meal. These differences are not expected to be clinically significant.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The steady-state exposure (AUC) of istradefylline was found 3.3-fold higher among patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) compared to those with normal hepatic function. Istradefylline has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    No difference in the pharmacokinetics of istradefylline was found among patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 mL/minute or more) compared to those with normal renal function. Istradefylline has not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/minute) with or without hemodialysis.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of istradefylline were not affected by age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of istradefylline were not affected by gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of istradefylline were not affected by race.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of istradefylline were not affected by body weight.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Tobacco Smoking
Steady-state systemic exposure to a 40 mg dose of istradefylline is 38% to 54% lower in tobacco smokers who smoke 20 or more cigarettes daily compared to non-smokers matched for age, gender, and body weight.
  Text
  Istradefylline is administered orally. Plasma protein binding is approximately 98% and the apparent volume of distribution is approximately 557 liters. Istradefylline is primarily metabolized by isoenzymes CYP1A1 and CYP3A4, with a minor contribution from CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C18, and CYP2D6. Six metabolites each account for less than 10% of the exposure of the parent drug. Approximately 39% and 48% of a 40 mg oral dose of C-istradefylline are eliminated in the urine and feces, respectively. The total clearance of istradefylline is 4.6 L/hour. Steady-state is reached within 2 weeks of once-daily dosing. The mean terminal half-life at steady state is approximately 83 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C18, CYP2D6, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OCT2, MATE1, MATE2-K
Istradefylline is predominantly metabolized by CYP1A1 and CYP3A4. Clinically relevant drug interactions may occur with other drugs that are CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers, and dose modification of istradefylline is recommended for heavy smokers/users of tobacco (induces CYP1A1). Istradefylline is also a substrate for CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C18, and CYP2D6 but does not inhibit or induce these enzymes. Istradefylline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT2, MATE1, and MATE2-K. The drug does not inhibit OAT3. Drug-drug interaction studies suggest that istradefylline may increase the exposure of selected CYP3A4 substrates (e.g., midazolam, atorvastatin) and P-gp substrates (e.g., digoxin). While istradefylline was a weak inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro, clinical drug-drug interaction studies with a CYP3A4 substrate (i.e., midazolam) showed no induction of CYP3A4.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      May administer tablets with or without food.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    40 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    40 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Use not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A): No dose adjustment needed.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B): The maximum recommended dose is 20 mg PO once daily.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Avoid use.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 15 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustments are needed.
CrCl less than 15 mL/minute: Data are not available. Istradefylline has not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) or ESRD requiring hemodialysis.
