=== Acetaminophen/Aspirin/diphenhydrAMINE — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5397)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine is an oral combination of analgesics and a sedating antihistamine indicated for the treatment of occasional headaches and minor aches and pains with accompanying sleeplessness.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Acetaminophen 500 mg/day PO, aspirin 500 mg/day PO, and diphenhydramine 76 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, proteinuria, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis, urinary retention, agranulocytosis, hemolysis, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, pruritus, purpura, rash, dehydration, diaphoresis, hyperglycemia, hypernatremia, hyperventilation, hypoglycemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis, blurred vision, diplopia, mydriasis, xerophthalmia

In an Overdose: Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing. After acute overdose, elevated hepatic enzymes occur within 12 to 36 hours and maximal liver damage and hepatic impairment peak 3 to 5 days after ingestion.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to any other pain reliever/fever reducer.

ACETAMINOPHEN/ASPIRIN/DIPHENHYDRAMINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Excedrin PM Headache

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of occasional headache and mild pain with accompanying insomnia

Oral dosage (tablets containing 250 mg of acetaminophen, 250 mg of aspirin, and 38 mg of diphenhydramine citrate)
Adults


2 caplets PO at bedtime as needed. Max: 2 caplets/day.


Children and Adolescents 12 to 17 years


2 caplets PO at bedtime as needed. Max: 2 caplets/day.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to any other pain reliever/fever reducer. Additionally, diphenhydramine is an ethanolamine class first-generation antihistamine and is contraindicated in individuals hypersensitive to other antihistamines of similar chemical structure.

glaucoma


Use acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine with caution in individuals with glaucoma.


cardiac disease, hypertension


Use acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine with caution in individuals with cardiac disease or hypertension.


aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease


Use acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine with caution in individuals with aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps, severe and potentially fatal acute bronchospasm, and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. When aspirin is used in individuals with pre-existing asthma without known aspirin sensitivity, monitor for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. Use acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine with caution in individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including emphysema or chronic bronchitis. The anticholinergic activity of the first-generation H1-antagonists may result in thickened bronchial secretions in the respiratory tract, thereby aggravating COPD.


bleeding disorder, peptic ulcer disease


Avoid aspirin in individuals with active peptic ulcer disease due to the risk of gastric ulceration and bleeding. Aspirin increases bleeding risk; risk factors for bleeding include history of bleeding disorder, ethanol ingestion, age 60 years and older, and the use of other drugs that increase the risk of bleeding (e.g., anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents, and chronic NSAID therapy).


alcohol use disorder, ethanol ingestion, hepatic disease, hypovolemia, malnutrition


A reduced total daily dose of acetaminophen may be warranted in individuals with hepatic disease. Acetaminophen has been associated with hepatotoxicity. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses more than 4 g/day, and often involve more than 1 acetaminophen-containing product. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and with chronic ethanol ingestion while taking acetaminophen, which may be defined as 3 or more alcohol beverages per day. Use acetaminophen with caution in individuals with alcohol use disorder, chronic malnutrition, severe hypovolemia (i.e., due to dehydration or blood loss), or severe renal impairment (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less). Take care when prescribing, preparing, and administering acetaminophen to avoid risk of medication errors which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure that the acetaminophen injection dose is in milligrams (mg) and milliliters (mL) is not confused; the dosing is based on weight for individuals less than 50 kg; infusion pumps are properly programmed; and the total daily dose of acetaminophen from all sources does not exceed maximum daily limits. Additionally, aspirin increases bleeding risk; risk factors for bleeding include ethanol ingestion.


renal disease


Longer dosing intervals or a reduced total daily dose of acetaminophen may be warranted in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl 30 mL/minute or less). Additionally, severe renal impairment may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen. Avoid aspirin in individuals with severe renal failure (i.e., GFR less than 10 mL/minute). Aspirin use decreases GFR and renal blood flow, especially in individuals with pre-existing renal disease. The regular use of aspirin is associated with a dose-dependent increased risk of chronic renal failure.


prostatic hypertrophy


Use acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine with caution in individuals who have trouble urinating due to prostatic hypertrophy because of the anticholinergic effects of diphenhydramine which may aggravate urinary retention.


influenza, varicella


Do not use aspirin in pediatric populations who have or are recovering from varicella (chicken pox), influenza, or influenza-like symptoms due to the risk of Reye syndrome.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Advise individuals that diphenhydramine can cause drowsiness and to avoid driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration until the effects of the drug are known.


adolescents, children, infants, neonates


Acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine is contraindicated in neonates, infants, and children younger than 12 years. The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes aspirin as a potentially inappropriate medication for use in infants, children, and adolescents with suspicion of a viral illness and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine with caution and appropriate monitoring.


geriatric


Aspirin increases bleeding risk; risk factors for bleeding include age 60 years and older. According to the Beers Criteria, aspirin is considered a potentially inappropriate medication (PIM) in geriatric adults. Aspirin may cause new or worsening gastric or duodenal ulcers, and there is an increased risk of GI bleeding and peptic ulcer disease in high-risk groups including those more than 75 years of age, or those taking oral or parenteral corticosteroids, anticoagulants, or antiplatelet medications. The risk of ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation is cumulative with continued use. The Beers panel also recommends avoiding chronic use of aspirin doses more than 325 mg/day in high-risk individuals, including those with a history of gastric or duodenal ulcers, unless other alternatives are not effective and the individual can take a gastroprotective agent. The use of a gastroprotective agent, like a proton-pump inhibitor or misoprostol, reduces but does not eliminate, GI risks.Additionally, the Beers Criteria identifies systemic first-generation antihistamines as PIMs for geriatric adults, recommending their avoidance due to their high anticholinergic properties, decreased clearance in older age, the development of tolerance when used as sleep aids, and an increased risk of anticholinergic effects and toxicity compared to younger individuals. These medications should particularly be avoided in patients with dementia or cognitive impairment (due to adverse CNS effects), those at high risk for delirium (which can worsen or trigger new-onset delirium), and men with lower urinary tract symptoms or benign prostatic hyperplasia (due to risks of urinary retention or hesitancy).


labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy


Combination products containing aspirin are not recommended for use during pregnancy, as aspirin dosages within these products may cause risk to the fetus and pregnant person. Avoid the use of NSAIDs, including regular-strength aspirin, during pregnancy starting at 30 weeks gestation due to the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. When use is necessary between 20 and 30 weeks gestation, limit use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if treatment exceeds 48 hours. Discontinue the NSAID if oligohydramnios develops, and follow up according to clinical practice. Use of NSAIDs around 20 weeks gestation and later may also cause fetal renal dysfunction, leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some cases, invasive neonatal procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis have been required. Salicylates have also been associated with alterations in maternal and neonatal hemostasis mechanisms, decreased birth weight, and perinatal mortality. It is recommended to avoid the use of aspirin 1 week prior to and during labor and obstetric delivery due to the potential for excessive blood loss at delivery. Prolonged gestation and labor due to prostaglandin inhibition have been reported. Acetaminophen, as a single agent, has long been established as the analgesic and antipyretic of choice for short-term use during pregnancy. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM), and the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada (SOGC) support its use when medically necessary and taken at recommended doses for the shortest duration required. Oral diphenhydramine use during pregnancy generally poses no concerns if used at recommended doses for a short duration of time. Reproduction studies in rats and rabbits at doses up to 5-times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of fetal harm. Other studies have shown no increased risk of birth defects or other pregnancy complications with diphenhydramine use. Non-pharmacologic methods (e.g., fluids and rest) are recommended to be tried first for symptomatic relief of colds or allergies during pregnancy. Alternative antihistamines may be considered. Loratadine and oral cetirizine are acceptable alternatives to first-generation antihistamines like diphenhydramine, based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy.


people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk associated with aspirin. NSAIDs may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.


breast-feeding


Use acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine with caution during breast-feeding. Salicylates are excreted into human milk, with higher doses resulting in disproportionately higher milk levels which could cause adverse effects in the breastfed child. Mean peak breast milk concentrations of salicylate in 6 lactating individuals after aspirin doses of 500, 1,000, and 1,500 mg were 5.8, 15.8, and 38.8 mg/L, respectively. Salicylate concentrations were detectable in breast milk within 1 hour of dosing and reached maximum concentration within 2 to 6 hours. Alternative analgesics and antipyretics considered to be usually compatible with breast-feeding include acetaminophen, as a single agent, and ibuprofen. Acetaminophen, as a single agent, is considered a first-line choice for analgesia, headache, or fever in the lactating individual, including for those patients who are immediately postpartum and planning to breastfeed. Amounts present in milk are much less than the doses usually given to infants, and adverse effects in breastfed infants appear to be rare. Limited published studies report acetaminophen is present in human milk, with similar concentrations in the milk and plasma. Average and maximum neonatal doses of 1% and 2%, respectively, of the weight-adjusted maternal dose are reported after a single oral dose of 1,000 mg. There is one well-documented report of rash occurring in a breastfed infant that resolved with drug discontinuation and recurred when acetaminophen was resumed. Occasional use of recommended doses of diphenhydramine for allergies or cold symptoms is not be expected to cause adverse effects in a breastfed child. Larger doses or prolonged use may cause adverse effects in the breastfed child or decrease the milk supply, especially if lactation is not well established. Side effects of sedating first-generation antihistamines in breastfed infants such as irritability, disturbed sleeping patterns, drowsiness, hyperexcitability, and excessive crying have been reported in a number of cases.  Antihistamines can lower basal prolactin secretion and may interfere with the establishment of lactation. Consider treatment alternatives when possible. Guidelines recommend loratadine or cetirizine at the lowest dose as preferred antihistamines in breast-feeding individuals because they are safer with only low levels found in breast milk. 


Pregnancy And Lactation


Use acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine with caution during breast-feeding. Salicylates are excreted into human milk, with higher doses resulting in disproportionately higher milk levels which could cause adverse effects in the breastfed child. Mean peak breast milk concentrations of salicylate in 6 lactating individuals after aspirin doses of 500, 1,000, and 1,500 mg were 5.8, 15.8, and 38.8 mg/L, respectively. Salicylate concentrations were detectable in breast milk within 1 hour of dosing and reached maximum concentration within 2 to 6 hours. Alternative analgesics and antipyretics considered to be usually compatible with breast-feeding include acetaminophen, as a single agent, and ibuprofen. Acetaminophen, as a single agent, is considered a first-line choice for analgesia, headache, or fever in the lactating individual, including for those patients who are immediately postpartum and planning to breastfeed. Amounts present in milk are much less than the doses usually given to infants, and adverse effects in breastfed infants appear to be rare. Limited published studies report acetaminophen is present in human milk, with similar concentrations in the milk and plasma. Average and maximum neonatal doses of 1% and 2%, respectively, of the weight-adjusted maternal dose are reported after a single oral dose of 1,000 mg. There is one well-documented report of rash occurring in a breastfed infant that resolved with drug discontinuation and recurred when acetaminophen was resumed. Occasional use of recommended doses of diphenhydramine for allergies or cold symptoms is not be expected to cause adverse effects in a breastfed child. Larger doses or prolonged use may cause adverse effects in the breastfed child or decrease the milk supply, especially if lactation is not well established. Side effects of sedating first-generation antihistamines in breastfed infants such as irritability, disturbed sleeping patterns, drowsiness, hyperexcitability, and excessive crying have been reported in a number of cases.  Antihistamines can lower basal prolactin secretion and may interfere with the establishment of lactation. Consider treatment alternatives when possible. Guidelines recommend loratadine or cetirizine at the lowest dose as preferred antihistamines in breast-feeding individuals because they are safer with only low levels found in breast milk. 


Interactions

Abacavir; lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with daily aspirin doses higher than 81 mg is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acarbose: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors whenever possible. There were reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death with high-dose aspirin and acetazolamide. Two mechanisms could cause increased acetazolamide concentrations, resulting in CNS depression and metabolic acidosis: first, competition with aspirin for renal tubular secretion and, second, displacement by salicylates from plasma protein binding sites. Additionally, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors alkalinize urine and increase the excretion of normal doses of salicylates; decreased plasma salicylate concentrations may or may not be clinically significant.
Acetohydroxamic Acid: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acidifying Agents: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of aspirin with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Alendronate: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Alendronate; Cholecalciferol: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of alendronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
ALFentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Alosetron, if combined with drugs that possess anticholinergic properties like sedating H1 blockers, may seriously worsen constipation, leading to events such as GI obstruction/impaction or paralytic ileus.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Medications with significant anticholinergic activity may potentiate the anticholinergic effects of amantadine, and may increase the risk of antimuscarinic-related side effects. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Amikacin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion. (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aminoglycosides: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion. (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Amobarbital: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when amoxapine is used concomitantly with drugs are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature Additive sedation may also occur.
Amoxicillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amoxicillin; Clavulanic Acid: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B: (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Ampicillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and anagrelide. The coadministration of single or repeated doses of anagrelide and aspirin resulted in greater ex vivo anti-platelet aggregation effects than administration of aspirin alone. In an observational study, the concomitant use of anagrelide and aspirin increased the rate of major hemorrhagic events compared to patients receiving other cytoreductive therapy. Assess the risks and benefits of concomitant aspirin and anagrelide use, particularly in patients at high risk for hemorrhage. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Antacids: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Large doses of salicylates (more than 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and antithrombin III should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Apixaban: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and diphenhydramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Apraclonidine: (Minor) No specific drug interactions were identified with systemic agents and apraclonidine during clinical trials. Theoretically, apraclonidine might potentiate the effects of CNS depressant drugs such as the anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, including barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Use caution if acetaminophen and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for an increase in acetaminophen-related adverse effects for several days after administration of a multi-day aprepitant regimen. Acetaminophen is a minor (10 to 15%) substrate of CYP3A4. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and may increase plasma concentrations of acetaminophen. For example, a 5-day oral aprepitant regimen increased the AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (single dose), by 2.3-fold on day 1 and by 3.3-fold on day 5. After a 3-day oral aprepitant regimen, the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1, 4, 8, and 15) increased by 25% on day 4, and then decreased by 19% and 4% on days 8 and 15, respectively. As a single 125 mg or 40 mg oral dose, the inhibitory effect of aprepitant on CYP3A4 is weak, with the AUC of midazolam increased by 1.5-fold and 1.2-fold, respectively. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction. Fosaprepitant 150 mg IV as a single dose increased the AUC of midazolam (given on days 1 and 4) by approximately 1.8-fold on day 1; there was no effect on day 4. Less than a 2-fold increase in the midazolam AUC is not considered clinically important. (Minor) Use caution if diphenhydramine and aprepitant are used concurrently and monitor for a possible decrease in the efficacy of diphenhydramine. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares the same drug interactions. Diphenhydramine is a CYP2C9 substrate and aprepitant is a CYP2C9 inducer. Administration of a CYP2C9 substrate, tolbutamide, on days 1, 4, 8, and 15 with a 3-day regimen of oral aprepitant (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg) decreased the tolbutamide AUC by 23% on day 4, 28% on day 8, and 15% on day 15. The AUC of tolbutamide was decreased by 8% on day 2, 16% on day 4, 15% on day 8, and 10% on day 15 when given prior to oral administration of aprepitant 40 mg on day 1, and on days 2, 4, 8, and 15. The effects of aprepitant on tolbutamide were not considered significant. When a 3-day regimen of aprepitant (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg) given to healthy patients on stabilized chronic warfarin therapy (another CYP2C9 substrate), a 34% decrease in S-warfarin trough concentrations was noted, accompanied by a 14% decrease in the INR at five days after completion of aprepitant.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of diphenhydramine. Patients receiving both a CYP3A inhibitor plus diphenhydramine may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form and CYP3A inhibitor strength. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP2D6 and CYP3A substrate; diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Moderate) Lumefantrine is an inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Concomitant use warrants caution due to the potential for increased side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of articaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue articaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C: (Minor) Agents that acidify the urine should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urinary pH changes can decrease salicylate excretion. However, if the urine is acidic prior to administration of an acidifying agent, the increase in salicylic acid concentrations should be minimal.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Using drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as sedating H1-blockers, concomitantly with asenapine may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of aspirin and dipyridamole; both medications interfere with platelet aggregation and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding. For patients undergoing a dipyridamole nuclear stress test and receiving combination aspirin; dipyridamole, hold aspirin; dipyridamole for 48 hours prior to the stress test; concomitant use may increase the risk for cardiovascular side effects and impair the sensitivity of the test.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Atropine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Azelastine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of azelastine and sedating H1-blockers due to risk for additive CNS depression. (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bacitracin: (Minor) Additive nephrotoxicity may occur with concurrent use of systemic bacitracin and other nephrotoxic agents, including salicylates. Topical administration of any preparation containing bacitracin, especially when applied to large surface areas, also should not be given with other drugs that have a nephrotoxic potential.
Baclofen: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including skeletal muscle relaxants, such as baclofen.
Barbiturates: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and belladonna use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Benzgalantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and benztropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Drugs that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as diphenhydramine, are pharmacologic opposites of bethanechol. These agents should not be used with bethanechol except when the specific intent is to counteract excessive actions of one or the other.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects and reduced efficacy of both medications if concomitant use of bromocriptine and a salicylate is necessary. Both medications are highly protein-bound and concomitant use may increase the unbound fraction of drug in circulation increasing the risk for adverse effects or enhancing drug elimination and reducing overall drug exposure.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Moderate) Coadministration of bupivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant prescribing of buprenorphine and diphenhydramine for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Gradually tapering a patient off other CNS depressants or decreasing to the lowest effective dose is preferred in most cases of patients being treated for opioid use disorder. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Also monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant use. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Reserve concomitant prescribing of buprenorphine and diphenhydramine for use in patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Gradually tapering a patient off other CNS depressants or decreasing to the lowest effective dose is preferred in most cases of patients being treated for opioid use disorder. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Also monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility during concomitant use. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
busPIRone: (Minor) In vitro studies showed that therapeutic levels of aspirin, ASA increased the plasma concentrations of free buspirone by 23% through plasma protein binding displacement. In vivo interaction studies with these drugs have not been performed.
Busulfan: (Moderate) Use busulfan and acetaminophen together with caution; concomitant use may result in increased busulfan levels and increased busulfan toxicity. Separating the administration of these drugs may mitigate this interaction; avoid giving acetaminophen within 72 hours prior to or concurrently with busulfan. Busulfan is metabolized in the liver through conjugation with glutathione; acetaminophen decreases glutathione levels in the blood and tissues and may reduce the clearance of busulfan.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Butorphanol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of butorphanol with sedating H1-blockers can potentiate the effects of butorphanol on CNS and/or respiratory depression. Use together with caution. If a CNS depressant needs to be used with butorphanol, use the smallest effective dose and the longest dosing frequency of butorphanol.
Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and sedating H1-blockers. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and aspirin when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
Capreomycin: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
Captopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Carbamazepine may potentially accelerate the hepatic metabolism of acetaminophen. In addition, due to enzyme induction, carbamazepine may increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Clinicians should be alert to decreased effect of acetaminophen. Dosage adjustments may be necessary, and closer monitoring of clinical and/or adverse effects is warranted.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of cariprazine, caution should be used when cariprazine is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications including benzodiazepines and other anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics like diphenhydramine.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Carisoprodol is metabolized to meprobamate, a significant CNS depressant. Carisoprodol can cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness, may occur if carisoprodol is taken with sedating H1-blockers. Utilize appropriate caution if carisoprodol is coadministered with another CNS depressant.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Cefixime: (Minor) In vitro, salicylates have displaced cefixime from its protein-binding sites, resulting in a 50% increase in free cefixime levels. The clinical significance of this effect is unclear at this time.
cefoTEtan: (Minor) Cefotetan has been associated with hypoprothrombinemia and may cause additive effects when given concurrently with salicylates.
Celecoxib: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and celecoxib is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concurrent use of analgesic doses of aspirin with NSAIDs does not produce a greater therapeutic effect compared to the use of NSAIDs alone. Celecoxib (200 to 400 mg/day) did not interfere with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 to 325 mg) in 2 studies in healthy volunteers and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Charcoal: (Minor) Activated charcoal binds many drugs within the gut. Administering charcoal dietary supplements at the same time as a routine acetaminophen dosage would be expected to interfere with the analgesic and antipyretic efficacy of acetaminophen. Charcoal is mostly used in the setting of acetaminophen overdose; however, patients should never try to treat an acetaminophen overdose with charcoal dietary supplements. Advise patients to get immediate medical attention for an acetaminophen overdose.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of chloroprocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue chloroprocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
chlorproMAZINE: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when chlorpromazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Additive CNS depression is possible if chlorzoxazone is used concomitantly with other CNS depressants including sedating H1-blockers. Additive effects of sedation and dizziness can occur, which can impair the ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of one or both medications may be necessary.
Cholestyramine: (Moderate) Cholestyramine has been shown to decrease the absorption of acetaminophen by roughly 60%. Experts have recommended that cholestyramine not be given within 1 hour of acetaminophen if analgesic or antipyretic effect is to be achieved.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Moderate) Prolonged concurrent use of acetaminophen and salicylates is not recommended. Although salicylates are rarely associated with nephrotoxicity, high-dose, chronic administration of salicylates combined other analgesics, including acetaminophen, significantly increases the risk of analgesic nephropathy, renal papillary necrosis, and end-stage renal disease. Additive hepatic toxicity may occur, especially in combined overdose situations. Do not exceed the recommended individual maximum doses when these agents are given concurrently for short-term therapy.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cidofovir: (Contraindicated) The concomitant administration of cidofovir and NSAIDs, such as aspirin, is contraindicated due to the potential for increased nephrotoxicity. Aspirin should be discontinued 7 days prior to beginning cidofovir.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Use caution with the coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol. Although the short-term (<= 4 days) coadministration of aspirin and cilostazol increased the inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation by 22% to 37% compared to aspirin or cilostazol use alone, no clinically significant effect on PT, aPTT, or bleeding time was observed compared to aspirin alone. In clinical trials, there was no apparent increase in hemorrhagic adverse effects in patients taking cilostazol and aspirin compared to aspirin alone. The effects of long-term coadministration are unknown. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Citalopram: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
cloBAZam: (Moderate) Clobazam, a benzodiazepine, may cause drowsiness or other CNS effects. Additive drowsiness may occur when clobazam is combined with CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. In addition, caution is recommended when administering clobazam with medications extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 such as diphenhydramine because clobazam has been shown to inhibit CYP2D6 in vivo and may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Clomipramine may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. This may increase the risk for an upper GI bleed. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if aspirin and clopidogrel are used together as concomitant has an additive effect on platelet function.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Clozapine exhibits clinically significant anticholinergic effects and sedation that may be additive with other medications that may cause anticholinergic effects and sedation, including antihistamines such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines and to avoid tasks requiring mental alertness until they are aware of the effects of the combination.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Codeine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Colistin: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking more than 150 mg/day of aspirin is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking more than 150 mg/day of aspirin within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cyclobenzaprine and diphenhydramine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
cycloSPORINE: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like cyclosporine may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Dabigatran: (Major) Educate patients about the signs of increased bleeding and the need to report these signs to a healthcare provider immediately if coadministration of dabigatran and aspirin or another salicylate is necessary. Dabigatran can cause significant and, sometimes, fatal bleeding. This risk may be increased by concurrent use of chronic salicylate therapy.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect (e.g., drowsiness) may occur when dantrolene is combined with other CNS depressants.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Coadministration of dapsone with acetaminophen may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Advise patients to discontinue treatment and seek immediate medical attention with any signs or symptoms of methemoglobinemia.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including salicylates.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like aspirin is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue antithrombotic agents prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Desflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Desloratadine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Advise patients that concurrent use of deutetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as diphenhydramine, may have additive effects and worsen drowsiness or sedation.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Consider a dosage reduction for dexmedetomidine or the sedating antihistamine during concomitant use due to the risk of additive CNS effects.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of some antihistamines, such as the sedating H1-blockers (i.e., diphenhydramine). This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended when administering quinidine with medications extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 such as diphenhydramine because quinidine inhibits CYP2D6 and may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Dichlorphenamide: (Major) Dichlorphenamide is contraindicated with the concomitant use of high dose aspirin, ASA and should be used cautiously in patients receiving low dose aspirin. Dichlorphenamide may cause an elevation in salicylate concentrations in patients receiving aspirin. Adverse reactions including anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, and coma have been reported with the concomitant use of dichlorphenamide and high dose aspirin.
Diclofenac: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and diclofenac is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Diclofenac is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and diclofenac is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Diclofenac is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Dicloxacillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and dicyclomine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Diflunisal: (Major) The concurrent use of diflunisal and salicylates is not recommended due to the increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity with little or no increase in anti-inflammatory efficacy. (Moderate) Acetaminophen plasma concentrations can increase by approximately 50% following administration of diflunisal. Acetaminophen has no effect on diflunisal concentrations. Acetaminophen in high doses has been associated with severe hepatotoxic reactions; therefore, caution should be exercised when using these agents concomitantly.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when diphenoxylate/difenoxin is combined with other CNS depressants. Diphenoxylate/difenoxin decreases GI motility. Other drugs that also decrease GI motility, such as sedating H1 blockers, may produce additive effects with diphenoxylate/difenoxin if used concomitantly. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of aspirin and dipyridamole; both medications interfere with platelet aggregation and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding. For patients undergoing a dipyridamole nuclear stress test and receiving combination aspirin; dipyridamole, hold aspirin; dipyridamole for 48 hours prior to the stress test; concomitant use may increase the risk for cardiovascular side effects and impair the sensitivity of the test.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) The anticholinergic effects of sedating H1-blockers, such as diphenhydramine, may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with moderate to significant anticholinergic effects including disopyramide. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and donepezil should be avoided if possible. Donepezil inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of donepezil.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and donepezil should be avoided if possible. Donepezil inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of donepezil.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Doxercalciferol is converted in the liver to its active metabolites. Although not specifically studied, cytochrome P450 enzyme inhibitors including diphenhydramine may inhibit the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol, thereby decreasing the formation of the active metabolite and thus, decreasing efficacy. Patients should be monitored for a decrease in efficacy if products containing diphenhydramine are coadministered with doxercalciferol.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Minor) Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP2D6. However, these drugs are often used together in treatment.
DOXOrubicin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor and doxorubicin is a major substrate of CYP2D6. However, these drugs are often used together in treatment.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of dronabinol with antihistamines is necessary. Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with antihistamines may result in additive drowsiness, hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Diphenhydramine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
droPERidol: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers have additive or potentiating sedative and other CNS effects with droperidol. Following administration of droperidol, lower doses of the other CNS depressant may need to be used.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Edoxaban: (Major) Monitor for bleeding in patients who require chronic treatment with aspirin. Concomitant use of edoxaban with drugs that affect hemostasis, such as aspirin, may increase the risk of bleeding. The coadministration of aspirin (100 mg or 325 mg) and edoxaban increased bleeding time relative to that seen with either drug alone.
Efavirenz: (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Minor) Drugs that induce the hepatic isoenzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2, such as efavirenz, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as diphenhydramine. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Eliglustat: (Major) In extensive or intermediate CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs or IMs), coadministration of scheduled diphenhydramine and eliglustat requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily during the course of antihistamine treatment; however coadministration of eliglustat with both diphenhydramine and a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor is contraindicated. It is unclear whether a single dose of diphenhydramine warrants modification of eliglustat therapy. Diphenhydramine is a substrate and moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6; eliglustat is a substrate and inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a CYP3A substrate. Coadministration of eliglustat with CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as diphenhydramine, may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias); the effects of a single diphenhydramine dose are unknown. In addition, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP2D6 substrates (e.g., diphenhydramine) may result in increased concentrations of the concomitant drug; monitor patients closely for anticholinergic adverse events.
Eltrombopag: (Moderate) Eltrombopag is a UDP-glucuronyltransferase inhibitor. Acetaminophen is a substrate of UDP-glucuronyltransferases. The significance or effect of this interaction is not known; however, elevated concentrations of acetaminophen are possible. Monitor patients for adverse reactions if these drugs are coadministered.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when elvitegravir is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for decreased diphenhydramine concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate of CYP2C9, while elvitegravir is a CYP2C9 inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when cobicistat is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for elevated diphenhydramine and cobicistat concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a substrate of CYP2C9. Cobicistat is an substrate/inhibitor of CYP2D6. (Moderate) Caution is warranted when elvitegravir is administered with diphenhydramine as there is a potential for decreased diphenhydramine concentrations. Diphenhydramine is a substrate of CYP2C9, while elvitegravir is a CYP2C9 inducer.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Entacapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, epoprostenol may increase the risk of bleeding.
Eptifibatide: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Minor) Caffeine has been reported to increase the metabolism of aspirin.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and diphenhydramine for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) A reduction in the dose of eszopiclone and concomitantly administered CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking CNS depressants. Alcohol consumption may result in additive CNS depression. (Major) Concomitant ingestion of alcohol with salicylates, especially aspirin, ASA, increases the risk of developing gastric irritation and GI mucosal bleeding. Alcohol and salicylates are mucosal irritants and aspirin decreases platelet aggregation. Routine ingestion of alcohol and aspirin can cause significant GI bleeding, which may or may not be overt. Even occasional concomitant use of salicylates and alcohol should be avoided. Chronic ingestion of alcohol is often associated with hypoprothrombinemia and this condition increases the risk of salicylate-induced bleeding. Patients should be warned regarding the potential for increased risk of GI bleeding if alcohol-containing beverages are taken concurrently with salicylates. (Major) The risk of developing hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen appears to be increased in patients who regularly consume alcohol. Patients who drink more than 3 alcohol-containing drinks a day and take acetaminophen are at increased risk of developing hepatotoxicity. Acute or chronic alcohol use increases acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by inducing CYP2E1 leading to increased formation of the hepatotoxic metabolite of acetaminophen. Also, chronic alcohol use can deplete liver glutathione stores. Administration of acetaminophen should be limited or avoided altogether in patients with alcoholism or patients who consume alcohol regularly.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Etodolac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Etomidate: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Minor) Although an interaction is possible, these drugs may be used together. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least 1 hour prior to an exenatide injection. When 1,000 mg acetaminophen elixir was given with 10 mcg exenatide (at 0 hours) and at 1, 2 and 4 hours after exenatide injection, acetaminophen AUCs were decreased by 21%, 23%, 24%, and 14%, respectively; Cmax was decreased by 37%, 56%, 54%, and 41%, respectively. Additionally, acetaminophen Tmax was delayed from 0.6 hours in the control period to 0.9, 4.2, 3.3, and 1.6 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before exenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying from exenatide use) and the clinical impact has not been assessed.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and diphenhydramine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Fenoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
fentaNYL: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with aspirin. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
flavoxATE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and flavoxate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, may increase the risk of CNS depression (e.g., dizziness, somnolence) compared to the use of flibanserin alone. Patients should avoid activities requiring full alertness (e.g., operating machinery or driving) until at least 6 hours after each dose and until they know how flibanserin affects them.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Additive sedative effects may be seen when fluphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with fondaparinux. Data on the concomitant use of fondaparinux with aspirin are lacking; however, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Foscarnet: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as foscarnet, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Fosphenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks. (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Fosphenytoin is converted to phenytoin in vivo, so this interaction may also occur with fosphenytoin.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of diphenhydramine and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Galantamine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and galantamine should be avoided if possible. Galantamine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of galantamine.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Garlic, Allium sativum may produce clinically-significant antiplatelet effects; until more data are available, garlic should be used cautiously in patients receiving drugs with a potential risk for bleeding such as aspirin, ASA.
Gentamicin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion. (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) There may be an increased risk of bleeding in patients on aspirin therapy who take ginger as a supplement (i.e., usual dietary intake is not expected to pose a risk). Several pungent constituents of ginger, Zingiber officinale are reported to inhibit arachidonic acid induced platelet activation in human whole blood. Ginger-associated platelet inhibition may be related to a decrease in COX-1/Thromboxane synthase enzymatic activity. The increased risk of bleeding is theoretical; clinical data of an interaction are not available.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and aspirin as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea should be used cautiously in patients taking aspirin; there may be an increased risk of bleeding. Monitoring clinical and/or laboratory parameters is warranted. Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals.
Griseofulvin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of griseofulvin with salicylates may result in decreased salicylate serum concentrations. Caution and close monitoring for changes in the effectiveness of the salicylate are recommended.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Haloperidol can potentiate the actions of other CNS depressants such as diphenhydramine, a sedating H1-blocker. Additive anticholinergic effects may occur. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or CNS effects may also occur.
Heparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin). Despite the potential drug-drug interaction between aspirin and heparin, heparin is frequently administered in combination with low-dose aspirin therapy to patients who have had an acute myocardial infarction and in other disease states. In addition, large doses of salicylates (at least 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. (Minor) Antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant actions of heparin, according to the product labels. However, this interaction is not likely of clinical significance since heparin therapy is adjusted to the partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and other clinical parameters of the patient.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and homatropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function. (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hydantoins: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Ibandronate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of intravenous or oral ibandronate use, respectively, and aspirin. Acute renal failure has been observed with intravenous ibandronate and concomitant use of other nephrotoxic agents may increase this risk. Additionally, the oral formulations of both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with platelet function such as aspirin; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with asprin is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia. (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ibrutinib and antiplatelet agents such as aspirin may increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients for signs of bleeding. Severe bleeding events have occurred with ibrutinib therapy including intracranial hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematuria, and post procedural hemorrhage; some events were fatal. The mechanism for bleeding with ibrutinib therapy is not well understood. Also, aspirin may mask signs of infection such as fever and in patients following treatment with antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and ibuprofen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, as appropriate. Administer single doses of ibuprofen at least 2 to 4 hours or more after aspirin and wait 8 hours after ibuprofen administration before administering aspirin to avoid significant interference. Monitor for signs and symptoms of renal impairment. Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even after ibuprofen 400 mg once daily, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. A decrease in antiplatelet activity (53%) was observed when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours before low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days. An interaction was still observed, but minimized, when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered as early as 8 hours before immediate-release aspirin (90.7%). There was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg once daily was administered 2 hours after immediate-release aspirin (99.2%). In another study of low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (1, 7, and 13 hours post-aspirin dose) for 10 consecutive days, there was no interaction with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin (98.3%); however, there were individuals with aspirin antiplatelet activity below 95%, with the lowest being 90.2%. When a similarly designed study was conducted with enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg/day for 6 days and ibuprofen 400 mg 3 times daily (2, 7 and 12 h post-aspirin dose) for 6 days, there was an interaction with the antiplatelet activity at 24 hours after the day 6 aspirin dose (67%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Ibuprofen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with iloperidone, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when iloperidone is given in combination with other centrally-acting medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Imatinib: (Major) Imatinib, STI-571 may affect the metabolism of acetaminophen. In vitro, imatinib was found to inhibit acetaminophen O-glucuronidation at therapeutic levels. Therefore, systemic exposure to acetaminophen is expected to be increased with coadministration of imatinib. Chronic acetaminophen therapy should be avoided in patients receiving imatinib.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Indomethacin: (Major) The concurrent use of salicylates and indomethacin is not recommended. Combined use does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than indomethacin monotherapy. Also, a significantly greater incidence of gastrointestinal adverse effects with concurrent use has been observed. Because NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, and prolong bleeding time, additive effects may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin), anticoagulants, or thrombolytic agents.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and salicylates due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity as well as the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of salicylates in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with aspirin. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Iron Sucrose, Sucroferric Oxyhydroxide: (Moderate) Administer aspirin at least 1 hour before oral iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide. Oral iron salts may reduce the bioavailability of aspirin, leading to decreased absorption.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with acetaminophen may result in increased serum concentrations of acetaminophen. Acetaminophen is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Isoflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Agents which induce the hepatic isoenzyme CYP2E1, such as isoniazid, may potentially increase the risk for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity via generation of a greater percentage of acetaminophen's hepatotoxic metabolites. The combination of isoniazid and acetaminophen has caused severe hepatotoxicity in at least one patient; studies in rats have demonstrated that pre-treatment with isoniazid potentiates acetaminophen hepatotoxicity.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant isoproterenol and diphenhydramine use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Diphenhydramine may potentiate the effects of isoproterenol.
Ivacaftor: (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as diphenhydramine. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Ketamine: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Ketoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Ketorolac: (Contraindicated) Ketorolac is contraindicated in patients currently receiving salicylates due to increased risk of serious NSAID-related adverse events, including gastrointestinal bleeding, ulceration, and perforation.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
lamiVUDine, 3TC; Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Monitor patients for possible loss of lamotrigine efficacy and seizure activity during coadministration with acetaminophen. Acetaminophen may induce glucuronidation pathways involved in lamotrigine metabolism. During a study among 12 healthy volunteers, concomitant administration of acetaminophen 4 g/day with lamotrigine at steady-state increased the formation clearance of lamotrigine glucuronide conjugates by 45%, decreased lamotrigine AUC by 20%, and reduced lamotrigine trough concentrations by 25%.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and sedating H1-blockers. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with lemborexant.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of cetirizine and sedating H1-blockers. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Levorphanol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of lidocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue lidocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Minor) When 1,000 mg acetaminophen was given 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the AUC was not significantly changed, but the acetaminophen Cmax was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median Tmax was delayed by 2 and 1.75 hours, respectively. Acetaminophen AUC, Cmax, and Tmax were not significantly changed when acetaminophen was given 1 h before lixisenatide injection. The mechanism of this interaction is not available (although it may be due to delayed gastric emptying) and the clinical impact has not been assessed. To avoid potential pharmacokinetic interactions that might alter effectiveness of acetaminophen, it may be advisable for patients to take acetaminophen at least one hour prior to lixisenatide subcutaneous injection.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor for excessive sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and lofexidine due to the potential for additive CNS depressant effects. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or performing any other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of the combination are known.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as acetaminophen (> 4 g/day PO for >= 3 days/week). The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenhydramine with ritonavir may result in elevated plasma concentrations of diphenhydramine. Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 substrate, and ritonavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Loratadine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although loratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of loratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Low Molecular Weight Heparins: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Loxapine: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are associated with anticholinergic effects and sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having anticholinergic activity and CNS depressant properties such as traditional antipsychotic agents, including loxapine. Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Concomitant use of diphenhydramine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter diphenhydramine exposure; monitor for diphenhydramine efficacy and adverse events. Diphenhydramine is partially metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. In vitro data suggest that lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce CYP2C19 and induce and/or inhibit CYP2C9. Although induction of diphenhydramine through the CYP2C19 pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on CYP2C9-mediated metabolism is not clear. (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as diphenhydramine. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Concomitant use of diphenhydramine and lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter diphenhydramine exposure; monitor for diphenhydramine efficacy and adverse events. Diphenhydramine is partially metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. In vitro data suggest that lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce CYP2C19 and induce and/or inhibit CYP2C9. Although induction of diphenhydramine through the CYP2C19 pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on CYP2C9-mediated metabolism is not clear.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and diphenhydramine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of lurasidone, caution should be used when lurasidone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications. Sedating H1-blockers are associated with sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having CNS depressant properties such as antipsychotics. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test.
Mafenide: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Magnesium Salts: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Mannitol: (Major) In general, avoid use of mannitol and salicylates. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs, such as the salicylates, increases the risk of renal failure after administration of mannitol. However, mannitol promotes the urinary excretion of salicylates, and may be used as an adjunct in salicylate intoxication.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Meclizine: (Major) The anticholinergic and sedative effects of meclizine may be enhanced when combined with other drugs with antimuscarinic activity, including other sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Clinicians should note that antimuscarinic effects might be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the eye, and temperature regulation.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Increased adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects are possible if mefenamic acid is used with salicylates. In addition, concomitant administration of salicylates and mefenamic acid may result in an increase in unbound plasma concentrations of either drug, which could result in greater adverse effects. In general, concomitant use of aspirin and mefenamic acid is not recommended.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Melatonin: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of melatonin and sedating H1-blockers due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Meloxicam: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Concomitant use of low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin and meloxicam is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Meperidine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of mepivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue mepivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) The CNS-depressant effects of meprobamate can be potentiated with concomitant administration of other drugs known to cause CNS depression including sedating H1-blockers.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of metaxalone with other CNS depressants can potentiate the sedative effects of either agent.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Methadone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
methazolAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, like methazolamide, whenever possible. The combination yielded reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death. The mechanism appears to be accumulation of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, resulting in increased CNS depression and metabolic acidosis. The acidosis may allow greater CNS penetration of the salicylate.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Methocarbamol may cause additive CNS depression if used concomitantly with other CNS depressants such as sedating H1-blockers. Combination therapy can cause additive effects of sedation and dizziness, which can impair the patient's ability to undertake tasks requiring mental alertness. Dosage adjustments of either or both medications may be necessary.
Methohexital: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Methotrexate: (Major) Do not administer salicylates before or concomitantly with high doses of methotrexate, such as used in the treatment of osteosarcoma. Concomitant administration of some NSAIDs with high dose methotrexate therapy has been reported to elevate and prolong serum methotrexate concentrations, resulting in deaths from severe hematologic and gastrointestinal toxicity. Use caution when salicylates are administered concomitantly with lower doses of methotrexate. Salicylates have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model and may enhance its toxicity. Methotrexate is partially bound to serum albumin, and toxicity may be increased because of displacement by salicylates.
Methscopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and methscopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Combined use of metoclopramide and other CNS depressants, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, can increase possible sedation. (Minor) Metoclopramide can increase the rate or extent of absorption of aspirin because of accelerated gastric emptying, which increases the contact time with the small bowel where this drug is absorbed.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor for metoprolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with diphenhydramine. Concomitant use may increase metoprolol serum concentrations which would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Metoprolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor for metoprolol-related adverse reactions, including bradycardia and hypotension, during coadministration with diphenhydramine. Concomitant use may increase metoprolol serum concentrations which would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Metoprolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
metyraPONE: (Major) Coadministration of metyrapone and acetaminophen may result in acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen glucuronidation is inhibited by metyrapone. It may be advisable for patients to avoid acetaminophen while taking metyrapone. (Moderate) Metyrapone may cause dizziness and/or drowsiness. Other drugs that may also cause drowsiness, such as sedating H1-blockers, should be used with caution. Additive drowsiness and/or dizziness is possible.
metyroSINE: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of metyrosine with sedating H1-blockers can result in additive sedative effects.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Minocycline: (Minor) Injectable minocycline contains magnesium sulfate heptahydrate. Because of the CNS-depressant effects of magnesium sulfate, additive central-depressant effects can occur following concurrent administration with CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers. Caution should be exercised when using these agents concurrently.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 isoenzymes such as diphenhydramine may be increased when co-administered with mirabegron. Diphenhydramine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6. Therefore, appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and mirtazapine due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Mitotane: (Moderate) Mitotane can cause sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other CNS side effects. Concomitant administration of mitotane and CNS depressants, including sedating h1-blockers, may cause additive CNS effects. (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and acetaminophen are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of acetaminophen. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and acetaminophen is a minor (10% to 15%) CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Molindone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating h1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including molindone.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Morphine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Mycophenolic acid is more than 98% bound to albumin. Concurrent use of mycophenolate with salicylates can decrease the protein binding of mycophenolic acid resulting in an increase in the free fraction of MPA. Patients should be observed for increased clinical effects from mycophenolate as well as additive adverse effects.
Nabumetone: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of nalbuphine with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the effects of nalbuphine on respiratory depression, CNS depression, and sedation.
Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity as well as increased therapeutic effect of nebivolol if coadministered with diphenhydramine; adjust the nebivolol dose according to blood pressure response. Concomitant use may increase the exposure of nebivolol. Nebivolol is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) An enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when sedating H1-blockers are combined with other CNS depressants including nefazodone.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and glycopyrrolate use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenhydramine with ritonavir may result in elevated plasma concentrations of diphenhydramine. Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 substrate, and ritonavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
Nitazoxanide: (Moderate) The active metabolite of nitazoxanide, tizoxanide, is highly bound to plasma proteins. Caution should be exercised when administering nitazoxanide concurrently with other highly plasma protein-bound drugs with narrow therapeutic indices because competition for binding sites may occur.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) When coadministered with aspirin, ASA (doses between 500 mg and 1000 mg), the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) of a single nitroglycerin dose is increased by 67% and 73%, respectively. Additionally, limited data suggest that patients receiving aspirin, ASA in high doses can exhibit an exaggerated response to sublingual nitroglycerin. Although hypotension and tachycardia were more significant during concomitant therapy, no special precautions appear necessary. The pharmacologic effects of 0.4% nitroglycerin rectal ointment may also be enhanced when administered concomitantly with aspirin, ASA; therefore, close clinical monitoring is advised.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Olanzapine exhibits anticholinergic effects that may be clinically significant. Clinicians should keep this in mind when using antimuscarinics and other medications with anticholinergic activity in combination with olanzapine. Some medications exhibit additive anticholinergic effects include sedating H1-blockers. Olanzapine may also cause additive sedation with many of these drugs.
Oliceridine: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Omacetaxine: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of omacetaxine and aspirin, ASA when the platelet count is less than 50,000 cells/microliter due to an increased risk of bleeding. Also, aspirin may mask signs of infection such as fever and pain in patients following treatment with antineoplastic agents or immunosuppressives. Aspirin, ASA should be used with caution in patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy. Special consideration should be given to myelosuppressed patients prior to receiving aspirin.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Opiate Agonists: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Opicapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Diphenhydramine is metabolized by CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6; oritavancin is a weak inducer of CYP2D6 and a weak CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 inhibitor. Coadministration may result in altered diphenhydramine plasma concentrations. If these drugs are administered concurrently, monitor for diphenydramine toxicity, such as drowsiness, or decreased effectiveness.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with anticholinergic properties, like sedating H1-blockers and orphenadrine, are used concomitantly. Adverse effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function, the CNS, the eye, and temperature regulation. Additive drowsiness may also occur.
Oxacillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Oxaprozin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
oxyBUTYnin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and oxybutynin use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of drugs with CNS depressant effects, including paliperidone and diphenhydramine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Monitor for signs and symptoms of CNS depression and advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Pamidronate: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant pamidronate and aspirin use due to risk for additive nephrotoxicity.
Papaverine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of papaverine with potent CNS depressants such as diphenhydramine could lead to enhanced sedation.
Paromomycin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion. (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in paroxetine-related adverse reactions, including serotonin syndrome, if concomitant use with diphenhydramine is necessary. Concomitant use may increase paroxetine exposure and risk for additive anticholinergic adverse effects. Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to diphenhydramine if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 inhibitor, while diphenhydramine is a CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 substrate.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Penicillin G Benzathine: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of penicillin G procaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue penicillin G procaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin G: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillin V: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Penicillins: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Use pentazocine with caution in any patient receiving medication with CNS depressant and/or anticholinergic activity. Coadministration of pentazocine with sedating H1-blockers may result in additive respiratory and CNS depression and anticholinergic effects, such as urinary retention and constipation.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) The concomitant administration of platelet inhibitor with pentoxifylline in the treatment of intermittent claudication has not been evaluated and should be approached with caution, due to the potential for synergistic effects.
Perampanel: (Moderate) Co-administration of perampanel with CNS depressants, including ethanol, may increase CNS depression. The combination of perampanel (particularly at high doses) with ethanol has led to decreased mental alertness and ability to perform complex tasks (such as driving), as well as increased levels of anger, confusion, and depression; similar reactions should be expected with concomitant use of other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when perphenazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and hyoscyamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and atropine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Phenytoin: (Minor) Hydantoin anticonvulsants induce hepatic microsomal enzymes and may increase the metabolism of other drugs, leading to reduced efficacy of medications like acetaminophen. In addition, the risk of hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen may be increased with the chronic dosing of acetaminophen along with phenytoin. Adhere to recommended acetaminophen dosage limits. Acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity has occurred clinically with the concurrent use of acetaminophen 1300 mg to 6200 mg daily and phenytoin. Acetaminophen cessation led to serum transaminase normalization within 2 weeks. (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Displacement of phenytoin from binding sites can lead to a decrease in the total phenytoin serum concentration. Close monitoring for excessive phenytoin toxicity or decreased phenytoin efficacy is recommended.
Phosphorated Carbohydrate Solution: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Phosphorus: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Pimozide: (Moderate) Due to the effects of pimozide on cognition, it should be used cautiously with other CNS depressants including sedating antihistamines. Sedating H1-blockers are associated with anticholinergic effects and sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with pimozide. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Piroxicam: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with diphenhydramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like diphenhydramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Pivmecillinam: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Plazomicin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion. (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as acetaminophen, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of antipyretics, such as aspirin, ASA, may decrease an individual's immunological response to the pneumococcal vaccine. A post-marketing study conducted in Poland using a non-US vaccination schedule (2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age) evaluated the impact of prophylactic oral acetaminophen on antibody responses to Prevnar 13. Data show that acetaminophen, given at the time of vaccination and then dosed at 6 to 8 hour intervals for 3 doses on a scheduled basis, reduced the antibody response to some serotypes after the third dose of Prevnar 13 when compared to the antibody responses of infants who only received antipyretics 'as needed' for treatment. However, reduced antibody responses were not observed after the fourth dose of Prevnar 13 with prophylactic acetaminophen.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Posaconazole and acetaminophen should be coadministered with caution due to an increased potential for acetaminophen-related adverse events. Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of acetaminophen. These drugs used in combination may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations, causing an increased risk for acetaminophen-related adverse events.
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of pramipexole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of pramipexole.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Salicylates can indirectly increase insulin secretion, and thus decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates may cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents. (Minor) Because pramlintide has the potential to delay the absorption of concomitantly administered medications, medications should be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after pramlintide injection when the rapid onset of a concomitantly administered oral medication is a critical determinant of effectiveness (i.e., analgesics).
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Prasterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA appears to have antiplatelet effects, which may prolong bleeding times. Because of these potential, varied effects on coagulation, patients receiving DHEA concurrently with aspirin, should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both prasugrel and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Aspirin 150 mg did not alter prasugrel-mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation; however, bleeding time was increased compared to either drug alone. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of diphenhydramine and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Coadministration of prilocaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue prilocaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. (Moderate) Diphenhydramine may potentiate the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine.
Primidone: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Procarbazine: (Moderate) Use procarbazine and sedating H1-blockers together with caution; additive central nervous system depression may occur.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when Prochlorperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and promethazine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Propofol: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Psyllium: (Moderate) Psyllium can interfere with the absorption of certain oral drugs if administered concomitantly. For example, psyllium fiber can adsorb salicylates. Per the psyllium manufacturers, administration of other prescribed oral drugs should be separated from the administration of psyllium by at least 2 hours.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and quetiapine. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended when administering quinidine with medications extensively metabolized by CYP2D6 such as diphenhydramine because quinidine inhibits CYP2D6 and may increase concentrations of drugs metabolized by this enzyme.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as ramelteon.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and sedating H1-blockers (sedating antihistamines) may result in additive sedation, anticholinergic effects, or hypotensive reactions. Rasagiline may be less likely to produce these interactions than other MAOIs, due to MAO-B selectivity. However, consider alternatives therapy to antihistamines where possible. If alternative combinations are not available, these medications may be used together with close monitoring. Many non-prescription products for coughs, colds, allergy, hay fever or insomnia contain sedating antihistamines. Patients receiving rasagiline should be counseled that it is essential to consult their healthcare provider or pharmacist prior to the use of any non-prescription products. Patients should also be advised against driving or engaging in other activities requiring mental alertness until they know how this combination affects them.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Remifentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) As a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducers, rifabutin could induce the metabolism of acetaminophen. An increase in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity may be seen by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite, NAPQI. Also, the analgesic activity of acetaminophen may be reduced.
rifAMPin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of acetaminophen with rifampin may increase the known risk of hepatotoxicity in relation to each drug. Severe hepatic dysfunction including fatalities were reported in patients taking rifampin with other hepatotoxic agents.
Risedronate: (Minor) Monitor for gastrointestinal adverse events during concurrent use of risedronate and aspirin. Both medications have been associated with gastrointestinal irritation although data suggest concomitant use introduces little additional risk for adverse effects for most patients.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Due to the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution is advisable when risperidone is given with other centrally acting medications including sedating H1-blockers such as diphenhydramine. This combination is commonly used in clinical practice; however, additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur. Patients should be informed of the risk of driving or performing other tasks requiring mental alertness until the effects of these medicines are known.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of acetaminophen with ritonavir may result in elevated acetaminophen plasma concentrations and subsequent adverse events. Acetaminophen is metabolized by the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; ritonavir is an inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of diphenhydramine with ritonavir may result in elevated plasma concentrations of diphenhydramine. Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 substrate, and ritonavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are administered together.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Salicylates such as aspirin are known to increase bleeding, and bleeding risk may be increased when these drugs are used concomitantly with rivaroxaban. The safety of long-term concomitant use of these drugs has not been studied. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding or blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with salicylates. In a single-dose drug interaction study, no pharmacokinetic interactions were observed after concomitant administration of acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin, ASA) with rivaroxaban.
Rivastigmine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of sedating H1-blockers and rivastigmine should be avoided if possible. Rivastigmine inhibits acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme responsible for the degradation of acetylcholine, and improves the availability of acetylcholine. Sedating H1-blockers may exhibit significant anticholinergic activity, thereby interfering with the therapeutic effect of rivastigmine.
Rolapitant: (Major) Use caution if diphenhydramine and rolapitant are used concurrently, and monitor for diphenhydramine-related adverse effects. Consider if another antihistamine would be a better choice for treatment. Diphenhydramine is a CYP2D6 substrate and rolapitant is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor; the inhibitory effect of rolapitant is expected to persist beyond 28 days for an unknown duration. Exposure to another CYP2D6 substrate, following a single dose of rolapitant increased about 3-fold on Days 8 and Day 22. The inhibition of CYP2D6 persisted on Day 28 with a 2.3-fold increase in the CYP2D6 substrate concentrations, the last time point measured.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ropinirole with other CNS depressants, such as sedating H1-blockers, can potentiate the sedation effects of ropinirole.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of ropivacaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue ropivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Rotigotine: (Major) Concomitant use of rotigotine with other CNS depressants, such as diphenhydramine, can potentiate the sedation effects of rotigotine.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Scopolamine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness or excess sedation and for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and scopolamine use. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic adverse effects.
Secobarbital: (Major) Because diphenhydramine can cause pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as barbiturates. (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Chronic therapy with barbiturates can increase the metabolism and decrease the effectiveness of acetaminophen. During acute overdoses, barbiturates can enhance the formation of toxic acetaminophen metabolites.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) Monitor for estrogen-related adverse effects during concomitant acetaminophen and ethinyl estradiol use. Acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and selegiline due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Sertraline: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and aspirin, ASA may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin. Additionally, aspirin impairs the gastric mucosa defenses by inhibiting prostaglandin formation.
Sevoflurane: (Minor) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when they are combined with general anesthetics.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by concurrent medications, including H1-blockers. False study results are possible; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sodium Benzoate; Sodium Phenylacetate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Antacids can delay the oral absorption of acetaminophen, but the interactions are not likely to be clinically significant as the extent of acetaminophen absorption is not appreciably affected.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Thiosulfate; Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when drugs with antimuscarinic properties like solifenacin are used concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, such as diphenhydramine.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for decreased efficacy of spironolactone if coadministration with aspirin is necessary. The spironolactone dose may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those receiving diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of spironolactone and aspirin may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. Aspirin may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. A single aspirin 600 mg dose inhibited the natriuretic effect of spironolactone, which was hypothesized be due to inhibition of tubular secretion of canrenone, causing decreased effectiveness of spironolactone.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor renal function and for decreased efficacy of spironolactone if coadministration with aspirin is necessary. The spironolactone dose may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those receiving diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of spironolactone and aspirin may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible. Aspirin may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. A single aspirin 600 mg dose inhibited the natriuretic effect of spironolactone, which was hypothesized be due to inhibition of tubular secretion of canrenone, causing decreased effectiveness of spironolactone.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Minor) St. John's wort, Hypericum perforatum induces cytochrome P450 1A2. About 10 to 15% of the acetaminophen dose undergoes oxidative metabolism via cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2E1, 3A4 and 1A2, which produces the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinonimine. Thus, theoretically St. John's wort might increase the risk of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity by increasing the metabolism of acetaminophen to NAPQI.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and diphenhydramine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
Streptomycin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion. (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
SUFentanil: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
sulfADIAZINE: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
sulfaSALAzine: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonamides: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and aspirin use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulindac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Concomitant use of analgesic doses of aspirin and naproxen is generally not recommended due to the increased risk of bleeding and renal impairment. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events after discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics as appropriate. A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated that lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen. There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the study due to the longer washout period. A decrease in antiplatelet activity was observed at 24 hours after 10 days of naproxen 220 mg/day with low-dose immediate-release aspirin 81 mg/day (93.1%) vs. aspirin alone (98.7%). The interaction was observed even after discontinuation of naproxen on day 11 while aspirin therapy continued but normalized by day 13. The interaction was greater when naproxen was given 30 minutes before aspirin (87.7% vs. 98.7%) and minimal when aspirin was administered 30 minutes before naproxen (95.4% vs. 98.7%). The interaction was minimal at 24 hours after day 10 when naproxen 220 mg twice daily was given 30 minutes before low-dose immediate-release aspirin (95.7% vs. 98.7%); however, the interaction was greater on day 11 after naproxen discontinuation (84.3% vs. 98.7%) and did not normalize by day 13 (90.7% vs. 98.5%). Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone. Naproxen is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of suvorexant and sedating antihistamines (H1-blockers). Dosage adjustments of suvorexant and sedating H1-blockers may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if suvorexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Patients should generally avoid nonprescription antihistamine products that are marketed as sleep-aids concurrently with suvorexant.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Tacrolimus, in the absence of overt renal impairment, may adversely affect renal function. Care should be taken in using tacrolimus with other nephrotoxic drugs, such as salicylates.
Tamsulosin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of diphenhydramine with tamsulosin is necessary, especially at a tamsulosin dose higher than 0.4 mg, as the systemic exposure of tamsulosin may be increased resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions including hypotension, dizziness, and vertigo. Tamsulosin is a CYP2D6 substrate and diphenhydramine is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Tapentadol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Because sedating H1-blockers cause sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics, such as tasimelteon.
Telavancin: (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Tetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of tetrabenazine and drugs that can cause CNS depression, such as diphenhydramine, can increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Coadministration of tetracaine with oxidizing agents, such as acetaminophen, may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia if coadministration is necessary. If methemoglobinemia occurs or is suspected, discontinue tetracaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care; more severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Increased monitoring is recommended if ivacaftor is administered concurrently with CYP2C9 substrates, such as diphenhydramine. In vitro studies showed ivacaftor to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9. Co-administration may lead to increased exposure to CYP2C9 substrates; however, the clinical impact of this has not yet been determined.
Thalidomide: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thalidomide with opiate agonists; antihistamines; antipsychotics; anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics; and other central nervous system depressants due to the potential for additive sedative effects.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Diphenhydramine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 and the use of thioridazine concomitantly with CYP2D6 inhibitors is contraindicated due to the possible risk of QT prolongation and subsequent arrhythmias, or other serious side effects, occurring from elevated serum concentrations of thioridazine. Also, additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when thioridazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Consider if an alternative to diphenhydramine would be appropriate for the patient's condition.
Thiothixene: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when antipsychotics, such as thiothixene, are used concomitantly with other drugs such as sedating H1-blockers. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may also occur.
Thrombin Inhibitors: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and aspirin is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, avoid IV aspirin in the first 90 minutes following thrombolytic administration and consider delaying the initiation of aspirin therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased bleeding and avoid aspirin doses greater than 100 mg during ticagrelor coadministration. Lower aspirin doses (100 mg or less) are associated with a lower risk of bleeding. Additionally, maintenance doses of aspirin above 300 mg decreased ticagrelor efficacy compared with doses of 100 mg or less in a clinical trial.
Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with aspirin and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Caution should be used when administering tipranavir to patients receiving platelet inhibitors. In clinical trials, there have been reports of intracranial bleeding, including fatalities, in HIV infected patients receiving tipranavir as part of combination antiretroviral therapy. In many of these reports, the patients had other medical conditions (CNS lesions, head trauma, recent neurosurgery, coagulopathy, hypertension, or alcoholism/alcohol abuse) or were receiving concomitant medications, including platelet inhibitors, that may have caused or contributed to these events.
Tirofiban: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with tirofiban. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tizanidine due to the risk for additive CNS depression. (Minor) Tizanidine delays the time to attain peak concentrations of acetaminophen by about 16 minutes. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Tobramycin: (Minor) Diphenhydramine may mask vestibular symptoms (e.g., dizziness, tinnitus, or vertigo) that are associated with ototoxicity induced by aminoglycosides. Antiemetics block the histamine or acetylcholine response that causes nausea due to vestibular emetic stimuli such as motion. (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) COMT inhibitors should be given cautiously with other agents that cause CNS depression, including sedating H1-blockers, due to the possibility of additive sedation. COMT inhibitors have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients should be advised to avoid driving or other tasks requiring mental alertness until they know how the combination affects them.
Tolmetin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for increased CNS effects if topiramate is coadministered with diphenhydramine. Although not specifically studied, coadministration of CNS depressant drugs with topiramate may potentiate CNS depression, such as dizziness or cognitive adverse reactions, or other centrally mediated effects of these agents.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Reserve concomitant use of opioids and diphenhydramine for patients in whom alternate treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose and monitor for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility. Concomitant use can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death as well as urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Minor) In a few reported cases, coadministration of verapamil with aspirin, ASA has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone. The exact mechanism and clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and sedating H1-blockers is contraindicated due to increased anticholinergic effects.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant trazodone and salicylate use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are coadministered with another anticoagulant. (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of diphenhydramine and trazodone due to the risk for additive CNS depression.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Coadministration can potentiate the CNS effects (e.g., increased sedation or respiratory depression) of either agent. Use caution with this combination.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic and sedative effects may be seen when Trifluoperazine is used with first generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Patients should be informed to read non-prescription allergy, sleep, and cough and cold product labels carefully for additional interacting antihistamines.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity during concomitant sedating H1-blocker and trihexyphenidyl use. Concomitant use may result in additive anticholinergic adverse effects.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) The concurrent use of trimethobenzamide with other medications that cause CNS depression, like the sedating h1-blockers, may potentiate the effects of either trimethobenzamide or the sedating h1-blocker.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation, urinary retention, and reduced gastric motility during coadministration of diphenhydramine and tricyclic antidepressants. Concomitant use may result in additive CNS depression or anticholinergic effects.
Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Concurrent salicylate therapy can increase the free-fraction of valproic acid, causing possible valproic acid toxicity. Valproic acid levels should be monitored when these agents are used concomitantly.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Vancomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as vancomycin, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Vemurafenib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and acetaminophen may result in altered concentrations of acetaminophen. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 and CYP2A6, and an inducer of CYP3A4. Acetaminophen is a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy. (Moderate) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and diphenhydramine may result in increased diphenhydramine concentrations. Vemurafenib is a CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6 inhibitor and diphenhydramine is a substrate of these isoenzymes. Patients should be monitored for toxicity and sedation.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Verapamil: (Minor) In a few reported cases, coadministration of verapamil with aspirin, ASA has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone. The exact mechanism and clinical significance of this interaction is unknown.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with aspirin is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation like aspirin could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vigabatrin: (Moderate) Vigabatrin may cause somnolence and fatigue. Drugs that can cause CNS depression, if used concomitantly with vigabatrin, may increase both the frequency and the intensity of adverse effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and dizziness. Caution should be used when vigabatrin is given with sedating H1-blockers.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Due to the CNS effects of vilazodone, caution should be used when vilazodone is given in combination with other centrally acting medications such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics. Also, Cyproheptadine is an antagonist of serotonin in the CNS, a property which may oppose some of the pharmacologic effects of vilazodone. Cyproheptadine has been used for the management of orgasm dysfunction caused by the serotonergic antidepressants and for the adjunctive treatment of serotonin syndrome; however, a reversal of antidepressant effects may occur when cyproheptadine is given in a routine manner along with the antidepressant. Clinically, cyproheptadine reportedly has interfered with the antidepressant and anti-bulimia actions of fluoxetine, but more data are needed to confirm a direct drug-drug interaction. (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Minor) Due to the high protein binding of aspirin, it could displace or be displaced from binding sites by other highly protein-bound drugs, such as penicillins. Also, aspirin may compete with penicillin for renal tubular secretion, increasing penicillin serum concentrations. Overall, this combination should be used with caution and patients monitored for increased side effects.
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Although indicated for concomitant use, both vorapaxar and aspirin are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Major) Co-administration of aspirin and warfarin is associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Consider alternate therapy for aspirin for analgesic or antipyretic uses. If aspirin and warfarin are coadministered, monitor the patient for signs or symptoms of bleeding. Gastrointestinal irritation and impaired hemostasis secondary to platelet inhibition have been observed with relatively small doses of aspirin. In addition, aspirin may displace warfarin from protein binding sites leading to increased anticoagulation effects. Large doses (more than 3 to 4 g/day) of aspirin can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding; hypoprothrombinemia has also been reported with aspirin doses less than 2 g/day. Lower doses (less than 100 mg) of aspirin are recommended for use in combination with aspirin for the prevention of cardiovascular events in specific cases, including in patients with mechanical mitral or aortic valve or atrial fibrillation after percutaneous coronary intervention or revascularization. The addition of warfarin to aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor in patients after ST-elevation myocardial infarction should be limited to situations where the risk of systemic or venous thromboembolism or stent thrombosis is considered to exceed that of bleeding. Data regarding the benefit vs. risk of combination therapy for other cardiovascular conditions remains unclear. (Minor) Although acetaminophen is routinely considered safer than aspirin and agent of choice when a mild analgesic/antipyretic is necessary for a patient receiving therapy with warfarin, acetaminophen has also been shown to augment the hypoprothrombinemic response to warfarin. Concomitant acetaminophen ingestion may result in increases in the INR in a dose-related fashion. Clinical bleeding has been reported. Single doses or short (i.e., several days) courses of treatment with acetaminophen are probably safe in most patients taking warfarin. Clinicians should be alert for an increased INR if acetaminophen is administered in large daily doses for longer than 10 to 14 days.
Xanomeline; Trospium: (Moderate) Additive anticholinergic effects may be seen when trospium is used concomitantly with drugs that are known to possess relatively significant antimuscarinic properties, including sedating H1-blockers. Clinicians should note that additive antimuscarinic effects may be seen not only on GI smooth muscle, but also on bladder function and temperature regulation. While CNS-related side effects such as drowsiness and blurred vision are not typically noted with trospium, they may occur in some patients.
Zafirlukast: (Minor) Coadministration of aspirin may increase plasma concentrations of zafirlukast. The potential clinical sequelae of increased zafirlukast concentrations are not known.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zaleplon due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary.
Ziconotide: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are CNS depressant medications that may increase drowsiness, dizziness, and confusion that are associated with ziconotide.
Zidovudine, ZDV: (Minor) Both acetaminophen and zidovudine, ZDV undergo glucuronidation. Competition for the metabolic pathway is thought to have caused a case of acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity. This interaction may be more clinically significant in patients with depleted glutathione stores, such as patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, poor nutrition, or alcoholism.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Sedating H1-blockers are associated with sedation; therefore, additive effects may be seen during concurrent use with other drugs having CNS depressant properties such as antipsychotics. Additive drowsiness or other CNS effects may occur with ziprasidone.
Zoledronic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor renal function during concomitant zoledronic acid and aspirin use due to risk for additive nephrotoxicity.
ZOLMitriptan: (Minor) Zolmitriptan can delay the Tmax of acetaminophen by one hour. A single 1 g dose of acetaminophen does not alter the pharmacokinetics of zolmitriptan and its active metabolite. The interaction between zolmitriptan and acetaminophen is not likely to be clinically significant.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Monitor for unusual drowsiness and sedation during coadministration of sedating H1-blockers and zolpidem due to the risk for additive CNS depression and next-day psychomotor impairment; dose adjustments may be necessary. Limit the dose of Intermezzo sublingual tablets to 1.75 mg/day.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.


Adverse Reaction
abdominal pain, anorexia, appetite stimulation, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, elevated hepatic enzymes, gastritis, GI bleeding, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, hypoprothrombinemia, jaundice, malaise, nausea, peptic ulcer, vomiting, weight gain, xerostomia


The hepatic effects of acetaminophen are well-known. In a study of combined data collected over a 5-year period from 22 specialty medical centers in the United States, acetaminophen-induced liver injury was the leading cause of acute hepatic failure. Unintentional overdose accounted for almost half of the reported cases; acetaminophen toxicity may occur as the result of acute overdose or chronic excessive dosing. Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity is manifested as hepatic necrosis, jaundice, and hepatic encephalopathy. Early nonspecific symptoms include nausea/vomiting, anorexia, abdominal pain, and malaise. After acute overdose, elevated hepatic enzymes occur within 12 to 36 hours and maximal liver damage and hepatic impairment peak 3 to 5 days after ingestion. GI bleeding can occur secondary to hypoprothrombinemia. Administration of intravenous vitamin K is recommended for hypoprothrombinemia due to acetaminophen overdosage. If more than 150 to 200 mg/kg, 10 g, or an unknown amount of acetaminophen is ingested, obtain a serum acetaminophen concentration 4 hours after ingestion or as soon as possible thereafter. Promptly administer N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which serves as a substitute sulfhydryl donor for glutathione, if the acetaminophen concentration plots above the treatment line on the Rumack-Matthew nomogram. NAC treatment should begin immediately if the estimated time after ingestion approaches 8 hours. Avoid acetaminophen misuse; do not exceed recommended doses and account for intake from all sources (e.g., single-entity products and combination products). Excessive acetaminophen exposure, malnutrition, concurrent ethanol consumption (acute and chronic), and/or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid) may lead to greater exposure of the toxic metabolite, N-acetyl-para-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI), and increase the risk for toxicity. Gastrointestinal adverse effects reported with aspirin include abdominal pain, anorexia, dyspepsia, elevated hepatic enzymes, gastritis, GI bleeding, hepatitis, nausea, and vomiting. Aspirin may cause peptic ulcer. The anticholinergic effects of antihistamines (H1-antagonists) are widely known to cause such effects as dry mouth (xerostomia) and adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects including constipation, abdominal pain, diarrhea, or other stomach distress. Xerostomia is a common adverse effect measured in clinical trials where systemic diphenhydramine is used adjunctively for nausea or vomiting, sedation, or treatment of allergic reactions. In a randomized, double-blind study, 610 patients with moderate-to-severe seasonal allergic rhinitis received diphenhydramine (50 mg PO 3 times daily), desloratadine (5 mg PO once daily), or placebo for 1 week. Xerostomia occurred more frequently with diphenhydramine (4.9%) compared to desloratadine (1.5%) and placebo (less than 1%). Other reported effects have included appetite changes, such as appetite stimulation and weight gain. 


increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, proteinuria, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, renal tubular necrosis, urinary retention


Acetaminophen has been associated with chronic analgesic nephropathy, a condition characterized by interstitial nephritis and renal papillary necrosis in patients receiving large doses of analgesics for an extended period of time. Though the National Kidney Foundation states there is negligible evidence to suggest chronic acetaminophen use causes analgesic nephropathy, they have recognized a weak association between chronic use and the prevalence of chronic renal failure and end-stage renal disease. In addition, acetaminophen overdose can result in acute renal failure and renal tubular necrosis, though such toxicity rarely occurs without severe hepatic toxicity. The risk of renal complications appears to be higher in patients with poor nutrition, chronic alcohol consumption, or concurrent use of enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., isoniazid). Renal adverse effects reported with aspirin include interstitial nephritis, renal papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and acute renal failure. Diphenhydramine possesses a significant degree of anticholinergic effects, which can result in urinary retention. Increased urinary frequency has also been reported.


agranulocytosis, hemolysis, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis


Sporadic case reports of agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, neutropenia, and pancytopenia have been described in patients taking acetaminophen. Drug-induced hemolysis and hemolytic anemia have been associated with acetaminophen overdose in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Though several case reports of hemolytic anemia in G6PD-deficient patients receiving therapeutic doses of acetaminophen exist, a direct cause and effect relationship has not been well established. Monitor G6PD-deficient patients presenting with acetaminophen toxicity closely for signs and symptoms of hemolysis. Hematologic adverse events that may rarely occur with diphenhydramine use include hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and agranulocytosis.


pruritus, purpura, rash


A case of acquired purpura fulminans developed in a 32-year-old woman who was instructed to take acetaminophen 1,000 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. The patient noted rapidly spreading purpuric lesions and associated edema. Her lesions were nonblanchable and enlarging, and she had multiple purplish-black hemorrhagic and necrotic areas. Purpura fulminans is usually associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation and can occur in patients with inherited or acquired deficiencies of the protein C anticoagulant pathway. Based on the patient's history of alcohol use and poor nutritional status, the authors concluded that reduced hepatic glutathione stores were further reduced by the introduction of acetaminophen, leading to impaired protein C and S synthesis and propagation of the disseminated intravascular coagulation cascade. Discontinuation of alcohol and acetaminophen and administration of vitamin K, heparin, and a systemic antibiotic led to almost complete purpuric lesion and hepatotoxicity resolution in 6 days. Dermatologic adverse reactions reported with aspirin include rash, pruritus, and purpura.


acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, atopic dermatitis, chills, contact dermatitis, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, hyperhidrosis, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria


Acetaminophen has been associated with a risk of rare but serious and sometimes fatal skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). These reactions can occur at any time during acetaminophen use, even after the first dose. Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) occurred in a 7-year-old girl after she took 3 doses of oral acetaminophen to treat a fever and sore throat. Twelve hours after the last dose, an erythematous rash appeared, which became generalized and vesicular over the next few hours. The patient developed a fever, low blood pressure, and an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and liver function tests. Skin biopsy was positive for subepidermal blister formation with full-thickness necrolysis of the epidermis. Acetaminophen rechallenge, performed 6 months later in an allergy clinic, produced similar symptoms within 30 minutes of administration and confirmed the initial diagnosis. SJS and TEN usually begin with flu-like symptoms followed by rash, blistering, and sloughing, all of which spread from the face downwards to the entire body (including palms of hands and soles of feet); recovery ranges from weeks to months and complications include corneal ulcerations, blindness, and internal organ damage. AGEP is typically a less severe reaction, characterized by acute onset, fever, and nonfollicular pustules on an erythematous rash; it usually resolves within 2 weeks of drug discontinuation. In addition to the aforementioned skin reactions, multiple cases of allergic contact dermatitis (delayed hypersensitivity type) have been reported in the literature. Various reactions, including generalized pruriginous micropapular eruption, facial edema, generalized pruriginous exanthem, exfoliative dermatitis, and generalized exanthema occurred within several hours after acetaminophen ingestion. Hypersensitivity reactions to acetaminophen may be manifested by urticaria, erythema, rash, maculopapular rash, and fever. Though rare, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. Discontinue acetaminophen immediately and seek medical attention for symptomatic treatment in patients who develop dermatologic or hypersensitivity reactions. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), a multi-organ hypersensitivity reaction, has occurred with NSAIDs. Some of these events have been life-threatening or fatal. DRESS typically presents as fever, rash, and/or lymphadenopathy in conjunction with other organ system involvement including hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Early manifestations such as fever and lymphadenopathy may be present without evidence of a rash. Discontinue the NSAID in patients presenting with such signs and symptoms in whom an alternative etiology cannot be identified. Dermatological adverse effects of diphenhydramine may include photosensitivity or excessive sweating (hyperhidrosis). Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash and urticaria, have been reported with diphenhydramine therapy. Anaphylactic shock and chills have also been reported rarely. Allergic atopic dermatitis can occur after systemic diphenhydramine administration.


elevated creatine kinase, rhabdomyolysis


Acetaminophen-induced rhabdomyolysis has been described in a case report. A 17-year-old male with a past medical history of drug-induced reactions (hepatitis, agranulocytosis, desquamative dermatitis, and pyrexia) after receiving acetaminophen with or without concurrent antibiotics, was rechallenged with oral acetaminophen 400 mg. Within 5 hours of administration, the adolescent presented with febrile exanthema, neutropenia, and elevated creatine kinase, C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and interleukin-10; the skin eruption and fever lasted 36 hours. Investigate symptoms such as unusual tiredness, weakness or unusual pain and swelling of the extremities, nausea and vomiting, and dark-colored urine promptly.


heart failure, myocarditis


Toxic myocarditis was reported in a 15-year-old female after an intentional overdose of an unspecified amount of acetaminophen. The patient expired as a result of acute heart failure.


agitation, asthenia, cerebral edema, coma, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, euphoria, fatigue, headache, hearing loss, insomnia, irritability, lethargy, neuritis, paresthesias, restlessness, seizures, tinnitus, vertigo, weakness


Prospective studies have shown there to be a slight but consistent association between regular analgesic use and hearing loss. Acetaminophen-related ototoxicity may result from depletion of glutathione, which protects the cochlea from noise damage. As a true long-term association may exist, counsel patients to minimize long-term treatment with acetaminophen as much as possible. A prospective analysis examining the association between analgesic use and the risk of hearing loss was conducted in 62,261 women 31 to 48 years of age at study enrollment who were originally enrolled in the Nurses' Health Study II. The association between self-reported hearing loss and analgesic use (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and NSAIDs) was examined over 14 years. During 764,247 person-years of follow-up, 10,012 cases of hearing loss were reported. After adjustment for confounders, acetaminophen use 2 or more days per week was independently associated with an increased risk of hearing loss, with the relative risk of hearing loss increasing with increasing frequency of use. Acetaminophen use 2 to 3, 4 to 5, or 6 or more days per week was associated with relative risks of 1.11 (95% CI 1.02 to 1.19), 1.21 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.37), and 1.08 (95% CI 0.95 to 1.22), respectively (p = 0.0007). Of note, those with more frequent use of acetaminophen had higher body mass indices; were more likely to smoke, have hypertension, or have diabetes; and were less physically active. In a similar study in male patients, the association between professionally diagnosed hearing loss and analgesic use (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and NSAIDs) was prospectively analyzed in 26,917 patients 40 to 74 years of age at study enrollment over 18 years. During 369,079 person-years of follow-up, 3,488 cases of hearing loss were reported. After adjustment for confounders, the hazard ratio (HR) for acetaminophen-associated hearing loss was 1.22 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.39, p = 0.09) in patients who were regular users of the drug (at least 2 times weekly) compared to those with less use. Men who regularly used acetaminophen for 4 years or more were 33% (14% to 56%) more likely to develop hearing loss than those with shorter use. In men younger than 50 years, the HR of hearing loss was 1.99 (95% CI 1.34 to 2.95); the degree of association generally decreased with aging. These studies do suggest association; however, data are based on patient reporting of the outcomes. Information regarding noise exposure and analgesic doses was not provided. Tinnitus and hearing loss may occur in patients receiving high-dose and/or long-term aspirin therapy. These effects are early manifestations of salicylate toxicity. However, hearing loss has occurred in patients at low serum salicylate concentrations. Tinnitus and hearing loss are usually dose-related and reversible upon dose reduction or discontinuation. Tinnitus is commonly associated with salicylate concentrations more than 200 to 300 mcg/mL. Maximum hearing loss occurs most frequently at salicylate concentrations of 400 mcg/mL or more. Discontinue acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine if tinnitus or hearing loss occurs. Other central nervous system adverse effects reported with aspirin include agitation, cerebral edema, coma, confusion, dizziness, headache, lethargy, and seizures. CNS depression, manifested as drowsiness and/or dizziness, can occur during use of sedating first-generation antihistamines such as diphenhydramine. Other less frequently occurring CNS effects of sedating antihistamines include asthenia/weakness, confusion, dysarthria (slurred speech), muscular weakness, fatigue, or headache. In a randomized, double-blind study, patients with moderate-to-severe seasonal allergic rhinitis received diphenhydramine (50 mg PO 3 times daily), desloratadine, or placebo for 1 week. Somnolence occurred significantly more frequently with diphenhydramine (22.1%) compared to desloratadine or placebo. Other adverse events reported for diphenhydramine were asthenia (4.4%), headache (2.5%), and dizziness (2.5%). Some side effects of sedating antihistamines may disappear after a few days of medication use. In a double-blind study to assess driving performance, diphenhydramine was associated with significantly poorer driving coherence (i.e., the ability to maintain appropriate velocity based on a lead car that varied its speed) compared to ethanol, fexofenadine, or placebo. Diphenhydramine recipients were also more likely to cross the center line of the road than with fexofenadine or placebo. Diphenhydramine can cause paradoxical CNS stimulation, although this effect is more likely to occur in young children. Restlessness is infrequently reported with usual use. Other rare CNS adverse events reported with therapeutic use include euphoria, insomnia, irritability, acute labyrinthitis, muscle spasms, nervousness, neuritis, paresthesias, ringing in the ear, vertigo, and in severe cases, seizures.


medication overuse headache, withdrawal


Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine, may lead to medication overuse headache. Patients may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Discontinuation of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise patients about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use. Pediatric guidelines recommend no more than 9 days/month of any combination of therapy to avoid medication overuse headache.


Reye's syndrome


Reye's syndrome has been reported with aspirin use. Aspirin may increase the risk of developing Reye's syndrome, a rare but serious disease which can follow flu or chicken pox in children and adolescents.   Reye's syndrome has been reported in children of all ages; however, most of the reported cases have occurred in children 5 to 10 years. Data are not strong to support a dose-dependent association with Reyes's syndrome; however, a case-controlled study reported that patients who developed Reye's syndrome (n = 27) had received larger doses for a longer duration compared with controls who did not develop Reye's syndrome. Of the patients who developed Reye's syndrome, 67% were receiving more than 20 mg/kg/day of salicylates compared with only 22% of controls. Reye's syndrome is a multisystem disorder evidenced by persistent vomiting, altered sensorium, elevated hepatic enzymes, hypoprothrombinemia, hyperammonemia, convulsions, and encephalopathy.


hyperuricemia


Salicylates, such as aspirin, have dose-dependent effects on plasma uric acid concentrations. At low doses (1 to 2 g/day) decreased urate excretion and hyperuricemia may be seen. Intermediate salicylate doses (2 to 3 g/day) usually do not alter urate excretion, and high doses of salicylates (more than 3 g/day) induce uricosuria and lower plasma uric acid concentrations.


intracranial bleeding


Intracranial bleeding has been reported with aspirin use.


dehydration, diaphoresis, hyperglycemia, hypernatremia, hyperventilation, hypoglycemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis


At therapeutic doses, salicylates such as aspirin cause changes in acid/base balance and electrolytes resulting in respiratory alkalosis. In patients with normal renal and respiratory function, this is usually compensated for appropriately. Severe acid/base disturbances may occur during salicylate toxicity. Infants and children with salicylate toxicity rarely present clinically with respiratory alkalosis. As salicylate toxicity progresses, changes resembling metabolic acidosis are present (e.g., low blood pH, low plasma bicarbonate concentrations, and normal or nearly normal plasma PaCO2). In reality, a combination of respiratory acidosis and metabolic acidosis is present. Alterations in water and electrolyte balance also occur in salicylate toxicity. Dehydration due to salicylate-induced diaphoresis and hyperventilation occurs. Since more water than electrolytes are lost, dehydration is associated with hypernatremia. Other laboratory changes noted in salicylate toxicity include hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia (especially in children), ketonuria, hypokalemia, and proteinuria. Prolonged exposure to high doses of salicylates also causes hypokalemia through both renal and nonrenal losses. Hyperventilation occurs due to direct stimulation of the respiratory center in the medulla. At high salicylate plasma concentrations (350 mcg/mL or more), marked hyperventilation will occur, and at serum concentrations of about 500 mcg/mL, hyperpnea will be seen. At high or prolonged doses, salicylates also have a depressant effect on the medulla. Toxic doses of salicylates cause central respiratory depression as well as cardiovascular collapse secondary to vasomotor depression. Since enhanced CO2 production continues, respiratory acidosis occurs.


blurred vision, diplopia, mydriasis, xerophthalmia


Diphenhydramine possesses a significant degree of anticholinergic effects, which can result in mydriasis, xerophthalmia, diplopia, and/or blurred vision.


nasal congestion, wheezing


Diphenhydramine possesses a significant degree of anticholinergic effects, which can result in thickening of bronchial secretions. Chest or throat tightness, wheezing, and nasal congestion have also been reported rarely.


infertility


NSAIDs, such as aspirin, may delay or prevent prostaglandin-mediated rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility. Small studies with NSAIDs demonstrated a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs in people who may become pregnant who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing infertility evaluation.


Description

Acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine is an oral combination of analgesics and a sedating antihistamine indicated for the treatment of occasional headaches and minor aches and pains with accompanying sleeplessness. Administration of acetaminophen in doses higher than recommended may result in hepatic injury, including the risk of liver failure and death; therefore, the maximum recommended daily dose of acetaminophen is not to be exceeded. The maximum recommended daily dose of acetaminophen includes all routes of acetaminophen administration and all acetaminophen-containing products administered, including combination products. Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal.  Aspirin increases the risk of bleeding and may cause gastric ulceration and bleeding. Diphenhydramine causes sedation via CNS depression. Tolerance to the sedative effects of the drug may occur with prolonged use. 

Mechanism Of Action

Acetaminophen acts within the CNS to increase the pain threshold by inhibiting central cyclooxygenase, an enzyme involved in prostaglandin (PG) synthesis. Acetaminophen inhibits both isoforms of central cyclooxygenase (COX), COX-1 and COX-2. Acetaminophen does not inhibit PG synthesis in peripheral tissues, which is the reason for its lack of peripheral anti-inflammatory effects. Aspirin inhibits the body's production of prostaglandins, including prostaglandins involved in inflammation. Prostaglandins cause pain sensations by stimulating muscle contractions and dilating blood vessels throughout the body. In the CNS, aspirin works on the hypothalamus heat-regulating center to reduce fever; however, other mechanisms may be involved. Diphenhydramine competes with free histamine for binding at H1-receptor sites on effector cells. Diphenhydramine causes sedation via CNS depression. Tolerance to the sedative effects of the drug may occur with prolonged use.

Pharmacokinetics

Acetaminophen; aspirin; diphenhydramine is administered orally. At therapeutic concentrations, protein binding of acetaminophen is about 10% to 25%. Acetaminophen is widely distributed throughout most body tissues except fat; low protein binding and molecular weight allow blood-brain barrier penetration. Vd of acetaminophen is approximately 1 L/kg in children and adults. Acetaminophen is primarily metabolized in the liver by first-order kinetics and involves 3 separate pathways: glucuronidation, sulfate conjugation, and cytochrome P450 oxidation. Glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation are the major routes of metabolism, while a small amount of drug undergoes oxidative metabolism via CYP2E1 producing the hepatotoxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI). At therapeutic doses, NAPQI is rapidly conjugated with glutathione to form inert cysteine and mercapturic acid metabolites. The P450 isoenzymes 1A2 and 3A4 appear to have a minor role in the metabolism of acetaminophen. Supratherapeutic or repeated therapeutic doses of acetaminophen, fasting, and alcoholism may deplete glutathione stores, leading to increased concentrations of NAPQI and hepatotoxicity. The elimination half-life of acetaminophen is 2 to 3 hours in healthy adults. Acetaminophen is renally excreted primarily as the glucuronide conjugate (40% to 65%) and sulfate metabolite (25% to 35%). Mercapturic acid and cysteine metabolites account for 5% to 12% of the urinary metabolites; less than 5% is excreted as unchanged drug. Aspirin is hydrolyzed primarily to salicylic acid in the gut wall and during first-pass metabolism through the liver. Salicylic acid is absorbed rapidly from the stomach, but most of the absorption occurs in the proximal small intestine. After absorption, salicylate is distributed to most body tissues and fluids, including the CNS; high concentrations are found in the liver and kidneys. Salicylate is variably bound to serum proteins, particularly albumin. The biotransformation of aspirin occurs primarily in the liver by the microsomal enzyme system. With a plasma half-life of approximately 15 minutes, aspirin is rapidly hydrolyzed to salicylate. At low doses, salicylate elimination follows first-order kinetics. The plasma half-life of salicylate is approximately 2 to 3 hours. Approximately 10% of aspirin is excreted as unchanged salicylate in the urine. The major metabolites excreted in the urine are salicyluric acid (75%), salicyl phenolic glucuronide (10%), salicyl acyl glucuronide (5%), and gentisic and gentisuric acid (less than 1%) each. After a single aspirin dose, 80% to 100% is excreted in the urine within 24 to 72 hours. Diphenhydramine is highly protein-bound. It is widely distributed throughout the body, including the central nervous system. Metabolism occurs in the liver. The mean serum half-life and clearance of diphenhydramine in young adults (mean age 31.5 +/- 10.4 years) was 9.2 +/- 2.5 hours and 23.3 +/- 9.4 mL/kg/minute, respectively. Little, if any, of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine; most appears as the degradation products of metabolic transformation in the liver, which are almost completely excreted within 24 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1
Although acetaminophen is primarily metabolized via glucuronidation and sulfate conjugation, it is also a substrate of CYP2E1. Drugs that induce CYP2E1 may increase the metabolism of acetaminophen to its toxic metabolite and therefore increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Because CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 have negligible contribution to acetaminophen metabolism, the enzymes are unlikely to affect toxic metabolite formation. In vitro and in vivo studies indicate that diphenhydramine is a substrate and inhibitor of CYP2D6 isoenzymes. To a lesser extent, it is also metabolized by CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 isoenzymes.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

Immediate-release acetaminophen is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, primarily the small intestine. Bioavailability ranges from 85% to 98%. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 30 to 60 minutes and range from 7.7 to 17.6 mcg/mL after a single 1,000 mg dose and 7.9 to 27 mcg/mL at steady-state after 1,000 mg every 6 hours in adults. Maximum concentrations of acetaminophen are delayed with concurrent food administration, however the extent of absorption is not affected. Aspirin is absorbed orally via passive diffusion as unchanged drug and as hydrolyzed salicylic acid from the upper intestine and partly from the stomach. Approximately 70% of an aspirin dose reaches the circulation unchanged; the remaining 30% is hydrolyzed to salicylic acid during absorption by esterases in the GI tract, plasma, or liver. The rate of absorption is dependent upon many factors including oral formulation, gastric and intestinal pH, gastric emptying time, and the presence of food. Aspirin is rapidly absorbed after oral administration, and bioavailability of regular aspirin in adults is approximately 40% to 50%. Food decreases the rate, but not the extent, of absorption. Salicylic acid is more ionized as the pH increases; however, a rise in pH increases the solubility of ionized salicylic acid and increases the dissolution of aspirin tablets. The overall effect of increased pH is an increase in absorption. Time to peak aspirin concentrations is 15 to 240 minutes depending upon the formulation. Plasma aspirin concentrations decrease as salicylic acid concentrations increase. A single oral diphenhydramine dose is well absorbed with maximum activity occurring in approximately 1 hour. The duration of activity after an average dose of diphenhydramine is 4 to 6 hours.

Hepatic Impairment

The half-life of acetaminophen may be prolonged in patients with hepatic disease.

Renal Impairment

In severe renal impairment (CrCl 10 to 30 mL/minute), the elimination of acetaminophen is slightly delayed, with an elimination half-life of 2 to 5.3 hours. In addition, the elimination of sulfate and glucuronide conjugates is 3 times slower in patients with severe renal impairment than in healthy subjects, leading to potential accumulation.

Pediatrics


Children and Adolescents
Acetaminophen is excreted primarily as the sulfate conjugate in children, due to a deficiency in glucuronide formation in younger pediatric patients. The relative contribution of sulfate and glucuronide conjugation changes with age and normal adult ratios (2:1 glucuronide to sulfate conjugates) are reached by 12 years of age. Diphenhydramine half-life is decreased and clearance increased in children as compared to young adults. The mean serum elimination half-life and clearance of diphenhydramine in children (mean age 8.9 +/- 1.7 years) were 5.4 +/- 1.8 hours and 49.2 +/- 22.8 mL/kg/minute, respectively.


Geriatric

Diphenhydramine half-life is increased and clearance decreased in the elderly as compared to young adults. The mean serum elimination half-life and clearance in elderly patients (mean age 69.4 +/- 4.3 years) were 13.5 +/- 4.2 hours and 11.7 +/- 3.1 mL/kg/minute, respectively.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Administer with a full glass of water.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Acetaminophen 500 mg/day PO, aspirin 500 mg/day PO, and diphenhydramine 76 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

Acetaminophen 500 mg/day PO, aspirin 500 mg/day PO, and diphenhydramine 76 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Acetaminophen 500 mg/day PO, aspirin 500 mg/day PO, and diphenhydramine 76 mg/day PO.

Children

Children 12 years: Acetaminophen 500 mg/day PO, aspirin 500 mg/day PO, and diphenhydramine 76 mg/day PO.
Children 1 to 11 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Excedrin PM Headache Caplet

Walgreens Headache Relief PM Caplet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are required. Avoid aspirin use in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency.

Renal Impairment

For patients with a CrCl less than 10 mL/minute, administer acetaminophen at a minimum interval of every 8 hours. Chronic use should be discouraged in patients with underlying renal disease. Avoid aspirin use in patients with GFR less than 10 mL/minute.

© 2026 Elsevier