=== Anifrolumab — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5349)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Anifrolumab is a type 1 interferon receptor antagonist approved for the treatment of moderate to severe systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in adult patients who are receiving standard therapy.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 300 mg IV every 4 weeks; 120 mg subcutaneously once every week.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): cough, infection, pharyngitis, dizziness, fatigue, headache, infusion-related reactions, breast cancer, new primary malignancy, skin cancer

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. infection Avoid initiation of anifrolumab therapy in patients with any clinically significant active infection until the infection resolves or is adequately treated. Consider the risks...

ANIFROLUMAB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

SAPHNELO

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of moderate to severe systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in combination with standard therapy

Intravenous dosage
Adults


300 mg IV every 4 weeks. When transitioning from subcutaneous to IV administration of anifrolumab, administer the first IV infusion approximately 3 to 4 weeks after the last subcutaneous injection.


Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


120 mg subcutaneously once weekly. When transitioning to subcutaneous administration, administer the first injection approximately 2 weeks after the last IV infusion.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

infection


Avoid initiation of anifrolumab therapy in patients with any clinically significant active infection until the infection resolves or is adequately treated. Consider the risks and benefits of anifrolumab prior to initiating therapy in patients with a chronic infection, a history of recurrent infections, or known risk factors for infection. Monitor patients for the development of signs and symptoms of clinically significant infection. Consider interruption of anifrolumab therapy in patients who develop an infection or are not responding to standard anti-infective therapy until the infection resolves.


General Information

Update immunizations, according to current immunization guidelines, prior to initiating anifrolumab therapy. Avoid vaccination with live or live-attenuated vaccines during anifrolumab treatment.

breast-feeding


No data are available regarding the presence of anifrolumab in human milk, effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Maternal IgG is known to be present in human milk. If anifrolumab is transferred into human milk, the effects of local gastrointestinal exposure or systemic exposure in the breastfed child are unknown. Anifrolumab was detected in the milk of cynomolgus monkeys. However, due to species-specific differences in lactation physiology, these animal data may not predict drug concentrations in human milk. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, the risk of potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the underlying maternal condition, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated maternal condition.


pregnancy


The limited human data with anifrolumab use during human pregnancy are insufficient to determine whether there is a drug-associated risk for major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcome. Monoclonal IgG antibodies are known to be actively transported across the placenta as pregnancy progresses; therefore, fetal anifrolumab exposure may be greater during the third trimester of pregnancy. In a study of cynomolgus monkeys that received intravenous anifrolumab 30 mg/kg or 60 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks from gestation day 20 through 1-month postpartum (approximately lactation day 28), there was no evidence of anifrolumab-related maternal toxicity, embryo-fetal toxicity, or postnatal developmental effects. In addition, anifrolumab was not found to have an effect on T-cell-dependent antibody response in monkey infants up to day 180 post birth. The no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for maternal and developmental toxicity was identified as anifrolumab 60 mg/kg, which is approximately 28-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on an AUC basis. Mean anifrolumab serum concentrations in monkey infants were approximately 4.2% to 9.7% of the respective maternal concentrations and were up to 22-times the concentrations in maternal milk, suggesting placental anifrolumab transfer. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors outcomes in people exposed to anifrolumab during pregnancy; information about the registry can be obtained by calling 1-877-693-9268 or visit https://anifrolumabpregnancyandbreastfeedingstudy.us/.


Pregnancy And Lactation


The limited human data with anifrolumab use during human pregnancy are insufficient to determine whether there is a drug-associated risk for major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcome. Monoclonal IgG antibodies are known to be actively transported across the placenta as pregnancy progresses; therefore, fetal anifrolumab exposure may be greater during the third trimester of pregnancy. In a study of cynomolgus monkeys that received intravenous anifrolumab 30 mg/kg or 60 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks from gestation day 20 through 1-month postpartum (approximately lactation day 28), there was no evidence of anifrolumab-related maternal toxicity, embryo-fetal toxicity, or postnatal developmental effects. In addition, anifrolumab was not found to have an effect on T-cell-dependent antibody response in monkey infants up to day 180 post birth. The no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for maternal and developmental toxicity was identified as anifrolumab 60 mg/kg, which is approximately 28-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on an AUC basis. Mean anifrolumab serum concentrations in monkey infants were approximately 4.2% to 9.7% of the respective maternal concentrations and were up to 22-times the concentrations in maternal milk, suggesting placental anifrolumab transfer. There is a pregnancy registry that monitors outcomes in people exposed to anifrolumab during pregnancy; information about the registry can be obtained by calling 1-877-693-9268 or visit https://anifrolumabpregnancyandbreastfeedingstudy.us/.


Interactions

Adalimumab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including tumor necrosis factor modifiers (TNF blockers). Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Alemtuzumab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as alemtuzumab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Anthrax Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vaccine, BCG: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Belimumab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including belimumab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Certolizumab pegol: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including tumor necrosis factor modifiers (TNF blockers). Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Chikungunya Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
cycloPHOSphamide: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as cyclophosphamide. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV : (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid, Tetanus Toxoid, Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, DTaP; Inactivated Poliovirus Vaccine, IPV: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria Toxoid; Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed, DT, Td: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Diphtheria/Tetanus Toxoids; Pertussis Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Etanercept: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including tumor necrosis factor modifiers (TNF blockers). Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Golimumab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including tumor necrosis factor modifiers (TNF blockers). Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Haemophilus influenzae type b Conjugate Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hepatitis A Vaccine, Inactivated: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hepatitis A Vaccine, Inactivated; Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Hepatitis B Vaccine, Recombinant: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Human Papillomavirus 9-Valent Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as ibritumomab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
inFLIXimab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including tumor necrosis factor modifiers (TNF blockers). Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Influenza Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Intranasal Influenza Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence. (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Japanese Encephalitis Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Live Vaccines: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Measles/Mumps/Rubella Vaccines, MMR: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Meningococcal Group B (MenB-4C) Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Group B (MenB-FHbp) Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Groups A, B, C, W, and Y Vaccine (5 valent): (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Meningococcal Groups A, C, W, and Y Vaccine (4 valent): (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Non-Live Vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Obinutuzumab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as obinutuzumab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Ocrelizumab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as ocrelizumab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as ocrelizumab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Ofatumumab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as ofatumumab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Pneumococcal 15-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV15: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV20: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 21-valent Conjugate Vaccine, PCV21: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Pneumococcal 23-valent Polysaccharide Vaccine, PPSV23: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Rabies Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Respiratory Syncytial Virus Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
riTUXimab: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as rituximab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including B-cell targeted therapies such as rituximab. Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Rotavirus Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Smallpox and Monkeypox Vaccine, Live, Nonreplicating: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Smallpox and Mpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Tick-Borne Encephalitis Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications, such as anifrolumab, may have a diminished response to vaccines. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines at least 2 weeks prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. If vaccine administration is necessary, consider revaccination following restoration of immune competence. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure after receiving the vaccine.
Tumor Necrosis Factor modifiers: (Major) Coadministration is not recommended. Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies including tumor necrosis factor modifiers (TNF blockers). Potential concerns with use of these drugs together include an increased susceptibility to immunosuppression and serious infections, some of which might be fatal.
Typhoid Vaccine: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Yellow Fever Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of live vaccines with immunosuppressive drug therapy, such as anifrolumab, and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.


Adverse Reaction
cough, infection, pharyngitis


Individuals receiving immunosuppressive agents, such as anifrolumab, may develop an infection, which can be serious and fatal. The overall incidence of infection in the 52-week clinical trials was 69.7% with intravenous anifrolumab and 55.4% with placebo. Herpes zoster infection occurred in 6.1% of individuals receiving intravenous anifrolumab and 1.3% of individuals receiving placebo. There have been reports of herpes zoster infection with multidermatomal involvement and disseminated presentation. Two of the 28 anifrolumab recipients who developed herpes zoster experienced disseminated disease and required hospitalization; no placebo recipients experienced disseminated disease. Other infections reported in clinical trials with intravenous anifrolumab were upper respiratory tract infection (34% anifrolumab vs. 23% placebo, including nasopharyngitis and pharyngitis), bronchitis (11% vs. 5.2%, including, viral bronchitis and tracheobronchitis), and respiratory tract infection (3.3% vs. 1.5%, including bacterial and viral respiratory tract infections). Cough was reported in 5% of anifrolumab recipients vs. 3.2% with placebo. In clinical trials in adults administered either intravenous or subcutaneous anifrolumab, the incidence of serious infections while on treatment was 5.4% with anifrolumab compared to 4.9% with placebo. Fatal infections occurred while on treatment in 0.5% of anifrolumab recipients and 0% of placebo subjects. The most frequent serious infection reported in individuals treated with anifrolumab was pneumonia. During the long-term extension trials, the most common serious infections were COVID-19 and pneumonia. Monitor treated individuals for the development of signs and symptoms of clinically significant infection. Consider interruption of anifrolumab therapy in those who develop an infection or are not responding to standard anti-infective therapy until the infection resolves.


dizziness, fatigue, headache, infusion-related reactions, nausea, vomiting


Infusion-related reactions were one of the most frequently reported adverse reactions in intravenous anifrolumab clinical trials. Mild to moderate infusion-related reactions were reported in 9.4% of intravenous anifrolumab recipients and 7.1% of placebo subjects. The most common infusion-related reactions were headache, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and dizziness. In clinical studies, hypersensitivity reactions occurred in 2.8% of anifrolumab recipients and 0.6% with placebo. Anifrolumab should be administered by health care providers prepared to manage hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, and infusion-related reactions. Consider premedication in individuals with a history of these reactions. If an individual develops a serious infusion-related reaction or hypersensitivity reaction, immediately discontinue anifrolumab administration and initiate appropriate therapy.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema


Serious hypersensitivity reactions, such as anaphylactoid reactions and angioedema, may occur during anifrolumab use. In general, hypersensitivity reactions reported during clinical trials were predominantly mild or moderate in intensity and did not lead to discontinuation of the medication. In clinical trials, serious hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema (n = 2), were reported in 0.6% (3/459) of anifrolumab IV infusion recipients. During the SLE intravenous development program, there was 1 report of an anaphylactic reaction in a 150 mg IV infusion recipient, and 4 reports of angioedema after use of a 300 mg IV infusion. Consider premedication prior to IV infusion in individuals with a history of infusion-related or hypersensitivity reactions to the drug. If a serious infusion-related or hypersensitivity reaction, including anaphylaxis, occurs, immediately discontinue anifrolumab administration and initiate appropriate therapy. Instruct patients to immediately tell their health care provider and seek emergency medical care if they experience symptoms of an allergic reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) during or after the administration of anifrolumab injection.


arthralgia


Arthralgia has been reported during postmarketing use of anifrolumab. Due to the voluntary nature of postmarketing reports, neither a frequency nor a definitive causal relationship can be established.


antibody formation


As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for antibody formation against anifrolumab. In the clinical trials and long-term extension study, anti-anifrolumab antibodies were detected in 2.6% (n = 9/350) of subjects who received the recommended intravenous anifrolumab dosing regimen for up to 4 years. Treatment emergent anti-anifrolumab antibodies were detected in 6 of 107 individuals (ADA incidence 5.6%) receiving subcutaneous anifrolumab at the recommended dose. No neutralizing antibodies were detected. The clinical relevance of these anti-anifrolumab antibodies is not known. The detection of antibodies is dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay, and the incidence of positive antibodies may be influenced by assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease. Therefore, the incidence of antibody formation to anifrolumab cannot be directly compared to other products.


breast cancer, new primary malignancy, skin cancer


The impact of anifrolumab therapy on the development of new primary malignancy is not known, but, similar to other immunosuppressant agents, anifrolumab may increase the risk for the development of malignancies. During clinical studies, malignancies (excluding non-melanoma skin cancer) were reported in 0.7% of anifrolumab patients and 0.6% with placebo, respectively. Malignant neoplasm (including non-melanoma skin cancers) was reported in 1.3% and 0.6% of anifrolumab and placebo recipients, respectively. Malignancies reported in more than 1 anifrolumab recipient included breast cancer and squamous cell carcinoma. Consider the risks and benefits of anifrolumab prior to initiating therapy in people with known risk factors for the development or reoccurrence of malignancy. In treated individuals who develop a malignancy, consider the risks and benefits of continued treatment with anifrolumab.


Description

Anifrolumab is a type 1 interferon receptor antagonist approved for the treatment of moderate to severe systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in adult patients who are receiving standard therapy. Standard SLE therapy includes corticosteroids, antimalarials, NSAIDs, and/or immunosuppressants (e.g., azathioprine, mycophenolate, or methotrexate). The most common adverse effects in clinical trials were upper respiratory tract infections, nasopharyngitis, and infusion-related reactions. Serious and sometimes fatal hypersensitivity reactions and infections have been reported in patients receiving biologic immunosuppressive agents, including anifrolumab. Similar to other immunosuppressive agents, there is a risk of new malignancy with anifrolumab therapy. Coadministration of anifrolumab and other biologic therapies, such as B-cell-targeted therapies, is not recommended.

Mechanism Of Action

Anifrolumab is a human IgG1 kappa monoclonal antibody that inhibits type I interferon (IFN) signaling by binding, with high specificity and affinity, to subunit 1 of the type I interferon receptor (IFNAR). Type I IFNs are involved in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and elevated levels are associated with SLE disease flares. Approximately 60% to 80% of adult patients with active SLE express elevated levels of type I IFN inducible genes. This inhibition of type I IFN blocks the biologic activity of type I IFN, which may result in SLE symptom improvement by reversing immune dysregulation and reducing further tissue damage. Anifrolumab also induces the internalization of IFNAR1, thereby reducing the levels of cell surface IFNAR1 available for receptor assembly. Inhibition of receptor-mediated type I IFN signaling blocks IFN responsive gene expression along with downstream inflammatory and immunological processes. Blockade of plasma differentiation and normalization of peripheral T-cell subsets also occurs with type I IFN inhibition.

Pharmacokinetics

Anifrolumab is administered by intravenous infusion or subcutaneous injection. The estimated Vd at steady state for a typical individual with SLE weighing 68 kg is 5.16 L. Anifrolumab undergoes type I interferon receptor (IFNAR1) mediated drug clearance and displays non-linear pharmacokinetics. The estimated systemic clearance for anifrolumab was 0.146 L/day. After receiving anifrolumab for 1 year, serum concentrations of anifrolumab were below detection in 95% of individuals approximately 16 weeks after the last dose.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Intravenous Route

Following anifrolumab 300 mg IV once every 4 weeks, the accumulation ratio was approximately 1.11 for Cmax and 2.37 for Ctrough. Anifrolumab exhibits non-linear PK in the dose range of 100 mg to 1000 mg with more than dose-proportional increases in the exposure as measured by AUC, following intravenous administration. The estimated time to reach steady-state is approximately 112 days.

Subcutaneous Route

Following anifrolumab 120 mg subcutaneously once every week, the accumulation ratio was approximately 1.85 for Cmax and 1.85 for Ctrough. The bioavailability of anifrolumab was estimated to be 73% following subcutaneous injection. The estimated Cmax at steady state was 63.7 micrograms/mL. The estimated time to reach steady state is approximately 112 days.

Hepatic Impairment

Clinical studies have not been conducted to evaluate the impact of hepatic impairment on anifrolumab; however, IgG1 monoclonal antibodies are primarily eliminated via catabolism and not expected to undergo hepatic metabolism. Thus, changes in hepatic function are not expected to have an impact on anifrolumab clearance. In population pharmacokinetic analyses, baseline hepatic function biomarkers (ALT and AST 2-times the ULN or less, and total bilirubin) had no clinically relevant effect on anifrolumab clearance.

Renal Impairment

Clinical studies have not been conducted to evaluate the impact of renal impairment on anifrolumab; however, it does not undergo renal elimination. Based on pharmacokinetic population analyses, anifrolumab clearance was comparable in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients with normal, mild, and moderate renal impairment (90 mL/min/1.73 m2 and greater, 60 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2, and 30 to 59 mL/min/1.73 m2, respectively). There were no SLE patients with severe eGFR reductions or end stage renal disease (less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2) included in the analyses. Patients with a urine protein/creatinine ration (UPCR) greater than 2 mg/mg were excluded from clinical trials; however, based on population pharmacokinetic analyses, increased UPCR did not have a significant effect on anifrolumab clearance.

Geriatric

Based on pharmacokinetic analysis, age (range: 18 to 70 years) did not affect anifrolumab clearance. Only 3% (n = 33) of the individuals enrolled in the pharmacokinetic studies were aged 65 and older; thus, pharmacokinetic data is limited in this population.

Gender Differences

No clinically meaningful differences in systemic clearance of anifrolumab based on gender have been identified.

Ethnic Differences

No clinically meaningful differences in systemic clearance of anifrolumab based on race or ethnicity have been identified.

Obesity

No clinically meaningful differences in systemic clearance of anifrolumab based on body weight have been identified.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Injectable Administration


Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Anifrolumab is a clear to opalescent, colorless to slightly yellow solution. Do not use the solution if it is cloudy, discolored, or contains particulate matter.


Intravenous Administration

General
Only health care providers prepared to manage hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and infusion-related reaction, should administer anifrolumab infusion.
Prior to administration, consider premedication for prophylaxis against infusion and hypersensitivity reactions in people with a history of these types of reactions. If a serious infusion-related or hypersensitivity reaction occurs, immediately interrupt the administration of anifrolumab and initiate appropriate therapy.
When transitioning an individual from subcutaneous administration to intravenous administration of anifrolumab, administer the first intravenous infusion approximately 3 to 4 weeks after the last subcutaneous injection.
Missed dose: If a planned infusion is missed, administer anifrolumab as soon as possible. Maintain a minimum interval of 14 days between infusions.
 
Preparation of IV infusion
Anifrolumab vials are for intravenous use only and must be further diluted prior to administration.
From a 50 or 100 mL infusion bag containing 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, withdraw and discard 2 mL of solution. Do not shake the vial.
Withdraw 2 mL of solution from the anifrolumab vial and add it to the infusion bag. Gently invert the bag to mix the solution. Do not shake.
Discard any unused anifrolumab solution that remains in the vial; vials are single-use only.
Storage: Once diluted, the infusion may be stored at room temperature of 15 to 25 degrees C (59 to 77 degrees F) for up to 4 hours or under refrigeration at 2 to 8 degrees C (36 to 46 degrees F) for up to 24 hours. Protect from light. Do not freeze.
 
Intravenous infusion administration
If the diluted solution has been stored under refrigeration, allow the solution to reach room temperature prior to administration.
Infuse intravenously over 30 minutes through an infusion line containing a sterile, low-protein binding 0.2 to 15 micron in-line or add-on filter.
Following completion of the infusion, flush the entire infusion line with 25 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to ensure the complete dose has been administered.
Do not coadminister with other agents through the same IV line.


Subcutaneous Administration

General
Prefilled syringe and autoinjector are for subcutaneous use only.
When switching from intravenous administration to subcutaneous administration, administer the first subcutaneous injection approximately 2 weeks after the last intravenous infusion.
Patients or caregivers may administer anifrolumab or the autoinjector after proper training in the subcutaneous injection technique and after the health care provider determines it is appropriate.
Missed dose: Administer anifrolumab as soon as possible. Start a new weekly schedule from the day the missed dose was administered or resume dosing on their usual day of administration, providing a minimum interval of 3 days between subcutaneous injections.
 
Administration (Prefilled syringe or Autoinjector)
Review the manufacturer provided "Instructions for Use" for the device to be used.
Remove anifrolumab from the refrigerator and allow it to come to room temperature for 60 minutes. Do not warn in a microwave, hot water, direct sunlight or near other heat sources.
Administer subcutaneously into the thigh or abdomen, avoiding the 2 inches around the navel area. The upper arm may be used if a health care professional or caregiver administers the injection. Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, erythematous, or hardened. Rotate injection sites. When injecting in the same region, advise individuals to use an injection site at least 1 inch away from the last injection site.
Prefilled syringe: Pull the needle cover straight off; do not twist or wiggle. Insert needle at 45-degree angle into pinched skin. Push the plunger head all the way down, then slowly release until the needle guard covers the needle.
Autoinjector: Pull off the cap, which includes a protective sleeve. The pen is then unlocked and ready to inject. Place the green needle guard flat against the skin at a 90-degree angle. Press the pen firmly against the skin. Press and hold for about 15 seconds until the green plunger fills the viewing window. First and second "clicks" may be heard. Check the viewing window, if a green plunger does not fill it, the full dose may not have been received.
Storage: The prefilled syringe or autoinjector can be stored at room temperature 20 to 25 degrees C (68 to 77 degrees F) for up to 7 days in the original carton to protect from light. After the anifrolumab prefilled syringe or autoinjector has reached room temperature, do not return to the refrigerator.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

300 mg IV every 4 weeks; 120 mg subcutaneously once every week.

Geriatric

300 mg IV every 4 weeks; 120 mg subcutaneously once every week.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Saphnelo 120mg/0.8mL Prefilled Syringe Solution for Injection

SAPHNELO 300mg/2mL Solution for Injection

Saphnelo Pen 120mg/0.8mL Autoinjector Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

No specific studies have been conducted to investigate the effect of hepatic impairment on anifrolumab. Elimination of IgG monoclonal antibodies, such as anifrolumab, is primarily via catabolism; thus, anifrolumab is not expected to undergo hepatic metabolism or be effected by hepatic impairment. In population pharmacokinetic analyses, baseline hepatic function biomarkers (ALT and AST 2 times the upper limit of normal and greater, and total bilirubin) had no clinically relevant effect on anifrolumab clearance. It appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

No specific clinical studies have been conducted to investigate the effect of renal impairment on anifrolumab. In population pharmacokinetic analyses, anifrolumab clearance was similar in patients with normal, mild, and moderate renal impairment (90 mL/min/1.73 m2 and greater, 60 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2, and 30 to 59 mL/min/1.73 m2, respectively); no patients had severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2). Anifrolumab is not renally cleared, so it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier