=== Ambrisentan — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3560)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Ambrisentan is an oral cardiovascular agent that belongs to a class of compounds known as endothelin-receptor antagonists and is indicated as monotherapy or in combination with tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group I).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 10 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): fluid retention, flushing, peripheral edema, elevated hepatic enzymes, fatigue, fever, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, malaise, cough, nasal congestion, sinusitis, infertility, oligospermia, testicular atrophy

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. hepatic failure Use ambrisentan with caution in individuals with hepatic failure. Ambrisentan is not recommended for use in individuals with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

AMBRISENTAN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

LETAIRIS

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of pulmonary hypertension to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening in persons with WHO Group 1 pulmonary hypertension

Oral dosage
Adults


5 mg PO once daily for 4 weeks, with or without tadalafil, then increase dose to 10 mg PO once daily as needed and tolerated.


Children† and Adolescents† 5 to 17 years


5 to 10 mg PO once daily.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

hepatic failure


Use ambrisentan with caution in individuals with hepatic failure. Ambrisentan is not recommended for use in individuals with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. There is no information available on the use of ambrisentan in individuals with mild hepatic impairment; however, exposure to ambrisentan may be increased in these individuals. Elevations of liver aminotransferases (ALT, AST) have been reported with ambrisentan; in most cases, alternative causes of the liver injury could be identified (e.g., heart failure, hepatic congestion, hepatitis, alcohol use, hepatotoxic medications). Other endothelin receptor antagonists have been associated with elevations of aminotransferases, hepatotoxicity, and cases of liver failure. Discontinue ambrisentan if elevations in aminotransferase concentrations are greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or if elevations are accompanied by bilirubin elevations of greater than 2 times the ULN, or by signs or symptoms of liver dysfunction after exclusion of other causes. The results of an uncontrolled, open-label study suggest that ambrisentan may be tried in individuals who have experienced asymptomatic aminotransferase elevations on another endothelin receptor antagonist after aminotransferase concentrations have returned to normal.


anemia


Initiation of ambrisentan is not recommended in individuals with clinically significant anemia. Decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred during ambrisentan clinical trials and with other endothelin receptor antagonists. These decreases in hematocrit and hemoglobin concentrations occurred within the first few weeks of treatment and have stabilized thereafter. While the cause of the reductions in hemoglobin is unknown, it does not appear to be a result of hemorrhage or hemolysis. Measure hemoglobin prior to initiation of ambrisentan therapy, at one month, and then periodically thereafter. If a clinically significant decrease in hemoglobin concentration is observed and other causes cannot be excluded, consider discontinuation of ambrisentan therapy.


geriatric


Peripheral edema is a known class effect of endothelin receptor antagonists and was reported during ambrisentan clinical trials. However, during ambrisentan clinical trials, the incidence of peripheral edema was higher in geriatric adults (age 65 years and older) compared to younger individuals (age less than 65 years). Additionally, geriatric adults demonstrated less improvement in walk distances with ambrisentan compared to younger individuals.


idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis


Ambrisentan is contraindicated in individuals with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), including IPF patients with pulmonary hypertension (WHO Group 3). In a clinical study of patients with IPF, with or without pulmonary hypertension, the risk of disease progression or death was higher in the ambrisentan group compared to placebo. More patients taking ambrisentan died (8% vs. 4%), had a respiratory hospitalization (13% vs. 6%), and had a decrease in FVC/DLCO (17% vs. 12%) than in the placebo group.


pulmonary veno-occlusive disease


Use ambrisentan with caution in individuals with pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (PVOD). Pulmonary vasodilatory therapies, such as ambrisentan, may cause life-threatening pulmonary edema in individuals with PVOD. If signs of acute pulmonary edema occur during initiation of therapy, consider the possibility of associated PVOD and whether ambrisentan should be discontinued.


pregnancy


Ambrisentan is contraindicated for use during pregnancy. Based on data from animal reproduction studies, ambrisentan may cause fetal harm, including birth defects and death. Animal studies have demonstrated that ambrisentan is teratogenic in rabbits and rats at oral doses that resulted in exposures of 1.7 and 3.5 times, respectively, the human dose of 10 mg/day. Specifically, abnormalities of the lower jaw and hard and soft palate, malformation of the heart and great vessels, and failure of formation of the thymus and thyroid were observed. Available data from postmarketing reports and published literature over decades of use with other endothelin receptor antagonists have not identified an increased risk of fetal harm; however, these data are limited and preclude establishing a reliable estimate of the risk of adverse fetal and neonatal outcomes with endothelin rector antagonist use during pregnancy. If an individual becomes pregnant while being treated with ambrisentan, discontinue use and counsel them about the potential risk to the fetus.


embryo-fetal toxicity, people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with ambrisentan. Ambrisentan may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation, if onset of menses is delayed, or if pregnancy is suspected. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception prior to treatment initiation, while taking ambrisentan, and for 1 month after the last dose. Counsel people who may become pregnant on pregnancy planning and prevention, including emergency contraception, or designate counseling by another member of the health care team trained in contraceptive counseling. Ambrisentan may have an adverse effect on spermatogenesis, potentially causing male infertility.


breast-feeding


Avoid the use of ambrisentan during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of ambrisentan in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Ambrisentan has high protein binding, which suggests that concentrations in milk would be low. However, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child, avoidance is recommended. Ambrisentan and its active metabolite should be eliminated from milk in 3 days.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Ambrisentan is contraindicated for use during pregnancy. Based on data from animal reproduction studies, ambrisentan may cause fetal harm, including birth defects and death. Animal studies have demonstrated that ambrisentan is teratogenic in rabbits and rats at oral doses that resulted in exposures of 1.7 and 3.5 times, respectively, the human dose of 10 mg/day. Specifically, abnormalities of the lower jaw and hard and soft palate, malformation of the heart and great vessels, and failure of formation of the thymus and thyroid were observed. Available data from postmarketing reports and published literature over decades of use with other endothelin receptor antagonists have not identified an increased risk of fetal harm; however, these data are limited and preclude establishing a reliable estimate of the risk of adverse fetal and neonatal outcomes with endothelin rector antagonist use during pregnancy. If an individual becomes pregnant while being treated with ambrisentan, discontinue use and counsel them about the potential risk to the fetus.


Interactions

Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) The manufacturer warns that the combination of alfuzosin with antihypertensives, such as ambrisentan, has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Amphetamine: (Minor) Sympathomimetics such as amphetamine or dextroamphetamine can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy of ambrisentan.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Minor) Sympathomimetics such as amphetamine or dextroamphetamine can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy of ambrisentan.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Sympathomimetics such as amphetamine or dextroamphetamine can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy of ambrisentan.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, asenapine can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use of antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of asenapine and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Benzphetamine: (Minor) Sympathomimetics such as benzphetamine can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy of ambrisentan.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Orthostatic vital signs should be monitored in patients who are at risk for hypotension, such as those receiving cariprazine in combination with antihypertensive agents. Atypical antipsychotics may cause orthostatic hypotension and syncope, most commonly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Patients should be informed about measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning, or rising slowly from a seated position. Consider a cariprazine dose reduction if hypotension occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Co-Enzyme Q10, Ubiquinone: (Moderate) Co-enzyme Q10, ubiquinone (CoQ10) may lower blood pressure. CoQ10 use in combination with antihypertensive agents may lead to additional reductions in blood pressure in some individuals. Patients who choose to take CoQ10 concurrently with antihypertensive medications should receive periodic blood pressure monitoring. Patients should be advised to inform their prescriber of their use of CoQ10.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) When coadministering ambrisentan with cyclosporine, the ambrisentan dose should not be titrated to the recommended maximum daily dose. Limit the adult dose of ambrisentan to 5 mg once daily when coadministered with cyclosporine. Cyclosporine is a strong inhibitor of P-glycoprotein, OATP, and CYP3A4. In vitro data indicate ambrisentan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein, OATP, and CYP3A4. Cyclosporine twice daily (targeting a trough concentration of 150 - 200 ng/mL) and ambrisentan (5 mg once daily) were coadministered in a 14-day repeated dose study in healthy volunteers. The AUC and Cmax of ambrisentan increased approximately 2-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Dextroamphetamine: (Minor) Sympathomimetics such as amphetamine or dextroamphetamine can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy of ambrisentan.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
DOBUTamine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
DOPamine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported during duloxetine administration. The concurrent administration of antihypertensive agents and duloxetine may increase the risk of hypotension. Monitor blood pressure if the combination is necessary.
Dutasteride; Tamsulosin: (Minor) Because symptoms of orthostasis (e.g., postural hypotension, dizziness, vertigo) are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
EPINEPHrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Epoprostenol: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Etomidate: (Minor) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with ambrisentan may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
General anesthetics: (Minor) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with ambrisentan may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Secondary to alpha-blockade, iloperidone can produce vasodilation that may result in additive effects during concurrent use with antihypertensive agents. The potential reduction in blood pressure can precipitate orthostatic hypotension and associated dizziness, tachycardia, and syncope. If concurrent use of iloperidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Iloprost: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties such as ambrisentan. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy.
Isoflurane: (Minor) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with ambrisentan may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Isoproterenol is not a potent vasopressor; however, it does increase cardiac output. The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol may cause an increase in blood pressure. If isoproterenol is used concomitantly with antihypertensives, the blood pressure should be monitored as the administration of isoproterenol can compromise the effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.
Ketamine: (Minor) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with ambrisentan may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Minor) Sympathomimetics such as lisdexamfetamine can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy of ambrisentan.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to the antagonism of lurasidone at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, the drug may enhance the hypotensive effects of alpha-blockers and other antihypertensive agents. If concurrent use of lurasidone and antihypertensive agents is necessary, patients should be counseled on measures to prevent orthostatic hypotension, such as sitting on the edge of the bed for several minutes prior to standing in the morning and rising slowly from a seated position. Close monitoring of blood pressure is recommended until the full effects of the combination therapy are known.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Local anesthetics may cause additive hypotension in combination with antihypertensive agents.
Methamphetamine: (Minor) Sympathomimetics such as methamphetamine can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with methamphetamine.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Midodrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties such as ambrisentan. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Oxymetazoline: (Major) The vasoconstricting actions of oxymetazoline, an alpha adrenergic agonist, may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by ambrisentan. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for changes in blood pressure.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with antihypertensive drugs (beta blockers, diuretics) without observed problems. Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensives. If indicated, dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties such as ambrisentan. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Phenoxybenzamine is an antagonist at alpha-receptors. The hypotensive effects of phenoxybenzamine can be additive with those of other antihypertensive agents.
Phentermine: (Major) Sympathomimetics, such as phentermine, can antagonize the effects of vasodilators such as ambrisentan when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Sympathomimetics, such as phentermine, can antagonize the effects of vasodilators such as ambrisentan when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Although the duration of action of phentolamine is short, its onset is very rapid. The hypotensive effects of phentolamine can be additive with that of other antihypertensive agents.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Prazosin is well-known to produce a 'first-dose' phenomenon. The first dose response (acute postural hypotension) of prazosin may be exaggerated in patients who are receiving other antihypertensive agents. Lower dosages of each agent should be used.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
Propofol: (Minor) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with ambrisentan may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy of MAOIs with vasodilators. Patients should be instructed to rise slowly from a sitting position, and to report syncope or changes in blood pressure or heart rate to their health care provider.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can reduce the hypotensive effect of antihypertensive agents. Periodic evaluation of blood pressure is advisable during concurrent use of methylphenidates and antihypertensive agents, particularly during initial coadministration and after dosage increases of methylphenidate derivatives.
Sevoflurane: (Minor) General anesthtics may be associated with hypotension; however the frequency is less than with inhalational anesthetic agents. Concomitant use with ambrisentan may increase the risk of developing hypotension.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Silodosin: (Moderate) During clinical trials with silodosin, the incidence of dizziness and orthostatic hypotension was higher in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive treatment. Thus, caution is advisable when silodosin is administered with antihypertensive agents.
Sodium Nitrite; Sodium Thiosulfate: (Moderate) Sodium nitrite causes vasodilation resulting in hypotension. Vasodilators, such as ambrisentan, can cause additive hypotensive or orthostatic effects. Monitor patients carefully during times of coadministration.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Sparsentan: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of sparsentan and endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) is contraindicated due to the additive risk for serious adverse effects such as hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and renal dysfunction.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Tamsulosin: (Minor) Because symptoms of orthostasis (e.g., postural hypotension, dizziness, vertigo) are reported more frequently in tamsulosin-treated vs. placebo patients, there is a potential risk of enhanced hypotensive effects when co-administered with antihypertensive agents.
tiZANidine: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Additive hypotensive effects may be seen when monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are combined with antihypertensives or medications with hypotensive properties such as ambrisentan. Careful monitoring of blood pressure is suggested during concurrent therapy.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Although no specific interactions have been documented, ambrisentan has vasodilatory effects and may contribute additive hypotensive effects when given with other antihypertensive agents. Patients receiving ambrisentan in combination with other antihypertensive agents should be monitored for decreases in blood pressure.


Adverse Reaction
General Information

The safety of ambrisentan was evaluated in 483 patients with PAH during two 12-week, placebo-controlled studies (ARIES-1 and ARIES-2) as well as four non placebo-controlled studies. Doses ranged from 1—10 mg/day PO. Drug exposure ranged from 1 day to 4 years (n = 418 for at least 6 months and n = 343 for at least 1 year). Treatment discontinuations due to adverse events other than those related to pulmonary arterial hypertension were the same between the ambrisentan and placebo groups (2% for both groups). The incidence of serious adverse events other than those related to pulmonary arterial hypertension were similar for ambrisentan (7%) and placebo (5%).

angioedema, rash (unspecified)


Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema and rash (unspecified), have been reported during post-marketing experience with ambrisentan.


fluid retention, flushing, peripheral edema


Peripheral edema, a clinical consequence of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and a known-class effect of endothelin receptor antagonists, was reported in 17% of patients taking ambrisentan vs. 11% of patients taking placebo during clinical trials of ambrisentan monotherapy. Most of the cases of peripheral edema were mild to moderate in severity. Peripheral edema is more common with ambrisentan plus tadalafil than with either agent alone. During combination clinical trials, peripheral edema was reported in 45% of patients receiving combined therapy compared to 38% of those receiving ambrisentan alone and 28% of patients in the tadalafil monotherapy group. If clinically significant peripheral edema develops during treatment with ambrisentan, further evaluation should occur to determine the cause and need for specific treatment. Subgroup analyses of ambrisentan monotherapy trials indicate the incidence of peripheral edema was greater in elderly patients (65 years of age and older) receiving ambrisentan compared to placebo (29% for ambrisentan vs. 4% for placebo). The incidence of peripheral edema was similar in patients less than 65 years of age compared to placebo (14% vs. 13%). Among study participants in the combination therapy trial, no difference in the incidence of peripheral edema was observed in elderly patients (65 years and older) compared to younger patients on combination therapy (44% vs. 45%) or ambrisentan monotherapy (37% vs. 39%). Fluid retention requiring intervention (i.e., diuretic therapy, fluid management, or hospitalization for decompensated heart failure) has been reported within weeks of initiation of ambrisentan therapy. If fluid retention with or without associated weight gain develops, patients should be evaluated to determine the cause of fluid retention (e.g., ambrisentan or underlying heart failure) and the necessity of a specific intervention or discontinuation of ambrisentan therapy. If patients develop acute pulmonary edema during initiation of therapy with ambrisentan, consider the possibility of pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (PVOD). Discontinue use of ambrisentan if PVOD is confirmed. Flushing (4% for ambrisentan vs. 1% for placebo) was also reported during clinical trials.


anorexia, elevated hepatic enzymes, fatigue, fever, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, malaise, nausea, vomiting


Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported with ambrisentan; however, in most cases, alternative causes of the liver injury could be identified (e.g., heart failure, hepatic congestion, hepatitis, alcohol use, hepatotoxic medications). Ambrisentan should be discontinued if hepatic enzyme elevations greater than 5 times the ULN are observed, if aminotransferase elevations are accompanied by hyperbilirubinemia (i.e., bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN), or if clinical signs of hepatic impairment or hepatitis (such as anorexia, nausea, vomiting, fever, right upper quadrant abdominal pain, itching, jaundice, fatigue, or malaise) are reported. Other endothelin receptor antagonists have been associated with elevations of aminotransferases, hepatotoxicity, and cases of liver failure. During clinical trials, LFT elevations greater than 3 times ULN occurred in 0% of ambrisentan-treated patients and in 2.3% of placebo-treated patients.


cough, nasal congestion, sinusitis


Respiratory-related adverse reactions reported during clinical trials of ambrisentan monotherapy, compared to placebo, include nasal congestion (6% vs. 2%) and sinusitis (3% vs. 0%). During clinical trials of ambrisentan and tadalafil combination therapy, nasal congestion was reported in 19% of those receiving combination therapy, 16% of those receiving ambrisentan monotherapy, and 11% of those receiving tadalafil monotherapy. Cough was reported in 18% of those receiving combination therapy compared to 13% of those receiving ambrisentan monotherapy and 16% of those in the tadalafil monotherapy group. Bronchitis also was reported in the combination therapy clinical trial (10% combination vs. 4% ambrisentan vs. 9% tadalafil).


anemia


Decreases in hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit are class effects with endothelin receptor antagonists and were observed in clinical trials with ambrisentan. Decreases in hemoglobin concentration of greater than 15% from baseline were observed in 7% of all patients receiving ambrisentan compared to 4% of patients receiving placebo. Anemia was reported more often in the combination clinical trial involving ambrisentan and tadalafil. Of those receiving combination therapy, anemia was reported in 15% of patients compared to 7% in the ambrisentan monotherapy group and 11% of those receiving tadalafil monotherapy. The decreases in hematocrit and hemoglobin concentrations were observed within the first few weeks of treatment and stabilized thereafter. The mean decrease in hemoglobin from baseline to the end of treatment in the 12-week placebo-controlled, ambrisentan monotherapy studies was 0.8 g/dL. During post-marketing use of ambrisentan, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit resulting in anemia requiring transfusion have been reported. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of anemia; hemoglobin must be measured prior to initiation of ambrisentan therapy and periodically thereafter. If a clinically significant decrease in hemoglobin concentration is observed and other causes can not be excluded, discontinuation of therapy should be considered.


teratogenesis


Ambrisentan is contraindicated during pregnancy. Ambrisentan may cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman. When administered to animals, ambrisentan caused teratogenesis; effects included abnormalities of the lower jaw and hard and soft palate, malformation of the heart and great vessels, and failure of formation of the thymus and thyroid. There are no data on the use of ambrisentan in pregnant women. Pregnancy must be excluded before and during treatment (including 1 month after discontinuation of therapy) with ambrisentan by the use of 2 reliable methods of contraception including at least one primary form of contraception.


infertility, oligospermia, testicular atrophy


Ambrisentan may cause male infertility. Administration of ambrisentan may decrease sperm counts (oligospermia). Twenty-five individuals with WHO functional class III and IV primary arterial hypertension and normal baseline sperm count were enrolled in a 6-month, open-label, single arm, multicenter safety study evaluating the effect on testicular function of bosentan, an endothelin receptor antagonist similar to ambrisentan. Of 23 individuals who completed the study, 25% experienced a reduction in sperm count of at least 50% at 3 or 6 months. Marked oligospermia occurred in one individual at 3 months with sperm counts remaining low in 2 subsequent measurements over 6 weeks; however, sperm counts returned to baseline levels within 2 months after discontinuation of the drug. In 22 individuals who completed 6 months of bosentan therapy, sperm counts remained within the normal range with no observed changes in sperm morphology, sperm motility, or hormone levels. Additionally, testicular atrophy and impaired fertility have been associated with the chronic administration of endothelin-receptor antagonists in rodents. Testicular tubular degeneration was seen in rats treated with ambrisentan for 2 years at doses equivalent to 8 times the maximum recommended human dose. Further effects on sperm count and morphology, fertility, and mating performance were observed in studies in which male rats were treated with oral ambrisentan at doses equivalent to 236 times the maximum recommended human dose.


asthenia, dizziness


Asthenia and dizziness were reported during postmarketing use of ambrisentan. A causal relationship has not been established.


headache


During clinical trials of combination therapy with ambrisentan and tadalafil, headache was reported in 41% of patients taking combination therapy compared to 34% of those in the ambrisentan monotherapy group and 35% of those receiving tadalafil monotherapy.


dyspepsia


During combination therapy clinical trials including ambrisentan and tadalafil, dyspepsia was reported in 11% of patients taking combination therapy compared to 3% of those in the ambrisentan monotherapy group and 12% of those receiving tadalafil monotherapy.


hypotension


Symptomatic hypotension has been reported with the post-marketing use of ambrisentan.


Description

Ambrisentan is an oral cardiovascular agent that belongs to a class of compounds known as endothelin-receptor antagonists and is indicated as monotherapy or in combination with tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group I). Unlike bosentan, which is a competitive antagonist for both type A and B endothelin-1 (ET-1) receptors, ambrisentan is a highly selective and potent endothelin-A receptor antagonist. Endothelin-A receptor selectivity is believed to offer advantages by blocking the deleterious vasoconstrictive effects of endothelin-A on pulmonary vasculature while maintaining the vasodilator and ET-1 clearance functions of endothelin-B. In two randomized, double-blind, 12-week, placebo-controlled phase 3 studies (ARIES-1 and ARIES-2), treatment with ambrisentan resulted in a significant improvement in 6-minute walking distances (6MWD) and a significant delay in time to clinical worsening. Ambrisentan is contraindicated in pregnancy and, due to the teratogenic potential, all prescribers, pharmacies, and female patients must enroll in the Ambrisentan REMS program. Pregnancy testing is required in women of reproductive potential before initiating treatment and routinely during therapy. Further information is available at www.ambrisentanrems.us.com.

Mechanism Of Action

Ambrisentan is a selective endothelin-A receptor antagonist. Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a potent autocrine and paracrine peptide produced primarily by vascular endothelial cells, possesses powerful vasoconstrictor and mitogenic properties. Plasma ET-1 concentrations are elevated in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and correlate with increased mean right atrial pressure and disease severity. Two receptor subtypes, A and B, have been identified to mediate the effects of ET-1 on vascular smooth muscle cells. Stimulation of the endothelin-A receptor results in vasoconstriction and cell proliferation. Stimulation of the endothelin-B receptor produces vasodilation, antiproliferation, and ET-1 clearance. Ambrisentan antagonizes endothelin-A with high affinity and is highly selective for endothelin-A vs. endothelin-B (> 4000-fold). High selectivity for the endothelin-A receptor is believed to offer advantages in blocking the deleterious vasoconstrictive effects of endothelin-A on pulmonary vasculature, while maintaining the vasodilatory and ET-1 clearance functions of endothelin-B in patients with PAH.

Pharmacokinetics

Ambrisentan is administered orally. In healthy subjects, pharmacokinetic parameters are dose proportional. Ambrisentan is highly bound to plasma proteins (99%). It is metabolized by CYP3A, CYP2C19, and uridine 5'-diphosphate glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) 1A9S, 2B7S, and 1A3S. Additionally, in vitro data indicate that it is a substrate of Organic Anion Transport Protein (OATP) and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Ambrisentan is eliminated primarily by non-renal pathways; however, relative contributions of metabolism and biliary elimination have not been well characterized. The terminal half-life is 15 hours; the effective half-life is 9 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A, CYP2C19, UGT 1A9S, UGT 2B7S, UGT 1A3S, OATP, P-gp

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

After administration, ambrisentan is rapidly absorbed with maximum plasma concentrations occurring within 2 hours in healthy subjects and patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). The absolute bioavailability of ambrisentan is not known; food has no effect on bioavailability. The mean clearance of ambrisentan after oral administration is 38 mL/min in healthy subjects and 19 mL/min in patients with PAH.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
NOTE: Due to the risk of birth defects, all prescribers, patients, and pharmacies must enroll in a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) program.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.


Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Administer with or without food.
Do not split, crush, or chew the tablets.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

10 mg/day PO.

Elderly

10 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Ambrisentan 10mg Oral tablet

Ambrisentan 5mg Oral tablet

LETAIRIS 10mg Tablet

LETAIRIS 5mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Ambrisentan is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. Information is not available for patients with mild hepatic impairment; however, exposure to ambrisentan may be increased in these patients. Discontinue ambrisentan if aminotransferase elevations are greater than 5 times ULN or if elevations are accompanied by bilirubin greater than 2 times ULN or by signs or symptoms of liver dysfunction and other causes are excluded.

Renal Impairment

CrCl 20 mL/min or greater: No dosage adjustment necessary.
CrCl less than 20 mL/min: Pharmacokinetic studies have not been conducted; data on dosage adjustment are not available.

© 2026 Elsevier