=== Alitretinoin — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 772)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Alitretinoin gel is a topical retinoid used to treat cutaneous lesions in patients with AIDS-related Kaposi sarcoma.

Routes: topical; Common adult doses: 4 applications topically per lesion/day.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): edema, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, paresthesias, pruritus, rash

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alitretinoin is also contraindicated in people with retinoid hypersensitivity due to the possibility of cross-sensitivity. pregnancy People of reproductive potential should avoid... Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

ALITRETINOIN

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Panretin

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of cutaneous lesions in patients with AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma

Topical dosage
Adults


Apply topically to lesions twice daily; gradually increase the application frequency to 4 times daily as tolerated. Continue alitretinoin gel for as long as the individual responds to therapy. If application site toxicity develops, reduce application frequency. For severe irritation, temporarily discontinue treatment; may resume alitretinoin at a reduced frequency once symptoms improve.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Alitretinoin is also contraindicated in people with retinoid hypersensitivity due to the possibility of cross-sensitivity.

pregnancy


People of reproductive potential should avoid becoming pregnant while using alitretinoin. If used during pregnancy, apprise the patient of the potential hazard to the fetus. Based on data from animal studies and its mechanism of action, alitretinoin can cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. Oral administration of alitretinoin to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in early resorption, post-implantation loss, and fetal defects (limb, craniofacial, fused sternebrae) at doses of approximately 5-times the estimated daily human topical dose based on body surface area (assuming complete systemic absorption of alitretinoin, when administered as a 60g tube over 1 month in a 60 kg human). Early resorptions and post-implantation loss also occurred in rats administered oral alitretinoin at doses approximately 25 times the estimated daily human topical dose based on body surface area. Limb and craniofacial defects occurred in mice administered oral alitretinoin on day 11 of gestation at a dose of approximately 127 times the estimated daily human topical dose based on body surface area.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with alitretinoin. Alitretinoin may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others to use effective contraception during alitretinoin treatment and for 1 week after the final dose.


breast-feeding


Avoid the use of alitretinoin during breast-feeding and for 1 week after the last dose, due to the potential for serious adverse reactions. It is not known if alitretinoin or its metabolites are excreted in human milk.


Pregnancy And Lactation


People of reproductive potential should avoid becoming pregnant while using alitretinoin. If used during pregnancy, apprise the patient of the potential hazard to the fetus. Based on data from animal studies and its mechanism of action, alitretinoin can cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. Oral administration of alitretinoin to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in early resorption, post-implantation loss, and fetal defects (limb, craniofacial, fused sternebrae) at doses of approximately 5-times the estimated daily human topical dose based on body surface area (assuming complete systemic absorption of alitretinoin, when administered as a 60g tube over 1 month in a 60 kg human). Early resorptions and post-implantation loss also occurred in rats administered oral alitretinoin at doses approximately 25 times the estimated daily human topical dose based on body surface area. Limb and craniofacial defects occurred in mice administered oral alitretinoin on day 11 of gestation at a dose of approximately 127 times the estimated daily human topical dose based on body surface area.


Interactions

Diethyltoluamide, DEET: (Major) Advise patients to avoid the concomitant use of topical alitretinoin and products that contain diethyltoluamide (DEET), a common topical insect repellent. Concomitant use is expected to increase the risk for DEET-related adverse effects.


Adverse Reaction
edema, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, paresthesias, pruritus, rash


Dermatologic toxicity has been reported in patients with AIDS-related Kaposi sarcoma who received alitretinoin gel for the treatment of cutaneous lesions in 2 randomized, vehicle-controlled studies. Skin toxicity may be dose limiting due to severe erythema, edema, and vesiculation. In patients who develop skin toxicity, the application frequency of alitretinoin gel may be reduced or treatment can be temporarily discontinued for a few days until the symptoms lessen. In a randomized trial, application-site reactions that were reported more often in patients who received alitretinoin gel (n = 134) compared with vehicle only gel (n = 134) included rash (77% vs. 11%), pain (34% vs. 7%), pruritus (11% vs. 4%), exfoliative dermatitis (9% vs. 2%), skin disorder (8% vs. 1%), paresthesias (3% vs. 0%), and edema (8% vs. 3%). Severe application-site reactions occurred in 10% of alitretinoin-treated patients compared with 0% of patients who received vehicle only treated patients in this trial. The term skin disorder included excoriation, cracking, scab, crusting, drainage, eschar, fissure, or oozing. Application-site reactions that were reported more often in patients who received alitretinoin gel (n = 36) compared with vehicle only gel (n = 46) included rash (25% vs. 4%), pruritus (8% vs. 4%), exfoliative dermatitis (3% vs. 0%), paresthesias (22% vs. 7%), and edema (3% vs. 0%) in another trial.


photosensitivity


Retinoids as a class have been associated with photosensitivity. Advise individuals to minimize exposure of treated areas to sunlight and sunlamps during treatment with alitretinoin.


Description

Alitretinoin gel is a topical retinoid used to treat cutaneous lesions in patients with AIDS-related Kaposi sarcoma. It is not indicated for patients requiring systemic therapy (e.g., more than 10 new Kaposi sarcoma lesions in the prior month, symptomatic lymphedema, symptomatic pulmonary Kaposi sarcoma, or symptomatic visceral involvement). Patients should avoid prolonged exposure of the treated area to sunlight or ultraviolet light.

Mechanism Of Action

Alitretinoin (9-cis-retinoic acid) is an endogenous retinoid that binds to and activates retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and retinoid X receptors (RXRs) on the cell nucleus causing keratinocyte differentiation and blocking neo-angiogenesis and proliferation of Kaposi sarcoma cells in vitro. Alitretinoin also exhibits anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects by reducing sources of TNF-alpha (e.g., macrophages and activated dendritic cells) and decreasing the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-4, IL-1 beta, and IL-12p40).

Pharmacokinetics

Alitretinoin (9-cis-retinoic acid) is administered topically. It is metabolized to 4-hydroxy-9-cisretinoic acid and 4-oxo-9-cis-retinoic acid by CYP2C9, CYP3A4, CYP1A1, and CYP1A2 in vitro.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Topical Route

Systemic absorption is not extensive and there are no detectable plasma concentrations of 9-cis-retinoic acid metabolites after topical application of alitretinoin gel. In clinical trials, plasma concentrations of 9-cis-retinoic acid in patients with cutaneous lesions from AIDS-related Kaposi sarcoma who receved multiple-daily doses of alitretinoin gel for up to 60 weeks were similar to concentrations of circulating, naturally-occurring 9-cis-retinoic acid plasma concentrations in untreated healthy volunteers.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.


Topical Administration


Apply a generous coating of alitretinoin gel topically to lesions using a clean finger; avoid applying to health skin around lesions.
Do NOT apply gel on or near mucosal surfaces of the body such as eyes, nostrils, mouth, lips, vagina, tip of the penis, rectum, or anus.
Space applications apart as evenly as possible throughout the day.
Some gel should be visible on the surface of the lesion; it is not necessary to rub the gel into the lesion.
Allow the gel to dry (for about 3 to 5 minutes) before covering a treated area with loose clothing; do not cover with any other material, occlusive dressing, or bandage.
After applying the gel, wipe fingers with a disposable tissue and wash your hands using soap and water; use a mild soap when bathing or showering.
Do not shower, bathe, or swim until at least 3 hours after application; do not apply until at least 20 minutes after showering or bathing.
Mineral oil may be applied 2 hours after and no sooner than 2 hours before alitretinoin gel applications to prevent dryness and itching.
Avoid the use of other topical products on the lesions, including N,N-diethyl-m-toluamide (DEET)-containing products.
Minimize exposure of the treated areas to sunlight and tanning lamps during therapy.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

4 applications topically per lesion/day.

Elderly

4 applications topically per lesion/day.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Panretin 0.1% Topical Gel

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier