=== Pitolisant (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5158)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Pitolisant is a histamine-3 (H3) receptor antagonist/inverse agonist indicated for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) or cataplexy in individuals with narcolepsy.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 35.6 mg/day PO; 17.8 mg/day PO for CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): weight gain, abnormal dreams, anxiety, cataplexy, depression, hallucinations, insomnia, irritability, nightmares, sleep paralysis, suicidal ideation, dizziness, headache, migraine, seizures, arthralgia, back pain, carpal tunnel syndrome, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, anaphylactoid reactions, atopic dermatitis, pruritus, rash, urticaria

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. pregnancy There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with pitolisant use during human pregnancy. Available case reports from clinical trials and postmarketing...

Brand Names
  - Wakix

Dosage Forms
  - Wakix 17.8mg Tablet
  - WAKIX 4.45mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        8.9 mg PO once daily for 1 week, then 17.8 mg PO once daily for 1 week, and then 35.6 mg PO once daily. Adjust dose based on tolerability. Max: 35.6 mg/day. Up to 8 weeks may be necessary for clinical response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided, or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Adults who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers
        Dosage Description
        8.9 mg PO once daily for 1 week, then 17.8 mg PO once daily. Adjust dose based on tolerability. Max: 17.8 mg/day. Up to 8 weeks may be necessary for clinical response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided, or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing 40 kg or more
        Dosage Description
        4.45 mg PO once daily for 1 week, then 8.9 mg PO once daily for 1 week, then 17.8 mg PO once daily for 1 week, and then 35.6 mg PO once daily. Adjust dose based on tolerability. Max: 35.6 mg/day. Up to 8 weeks may be necessary for clinical response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided, or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing 40 kg or more who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers
        Dosage Description
        4.45 mg PO once daily for 1 week, then 8.9 mg PO once daily for 1 week, then 17.8 mg PO once daily. Adjust dose based on tolerability. Max: 17.8 mg/day. Up to 8 weeks may be necessary for clinical response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided, or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing less than 40 kg
        Dosage Description
        4.45 mg PO once daily for 1 week, then 8.9 mg PO once daily for 1 week, then 17.8 mg PO once daily. Adjust dose based on tolerability. Max: 17.8 mg/day. Up to 8 weeks may be necessary for clinical response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided, or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years weighing less than 40 kg who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers
        Dosage Description
        4.45 mg PO once daily for 1 week, then 8.9 mg PO once daily. Adjust dose based on tolerability. Max: 8.9 mg/day. Up to 8 weeks may be necessary for clinical response. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided, or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) or cataplexy in people with narcolepsy

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with pitolisant use during human pregnancy. Available case reports from clinical trials and postmarketing reports with pitolisant use in pregnant women have not determined a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproductive studies, administration of pitolisant during organogenesis caused maternal and embryofetal toxicity in rats and rabbits at doses 13 or greater and 4 times or greater the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 35.6 mg based on mg/square meter body surface area, respectively. The no observed adverse effect dose for maternal toxicity and embryofetal development were 2 and 4 times the MRHD based on body surface area, respectively. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to pitolisant during pregnancy. To enroll or obtain information, patients can call 1-800-833-7460. The effects of pitolisant during labor and obstetric delivery are unknown.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, CYP2D6 poor metabolizer, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Pitolisant is contraindicated in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) as it has not been studied in this population. Pitolisant is extensively metabolized by the liver, and a significant increase in drug exposure occurs in individuals with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B). Dosage adjustments are recommended for individuals with moderate hepatic impairment. Monitor hepatic function in individuals and adjust the dosage as necessary in individuals with hepatic failure. No dosage adjustments are recommended for mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A), but individuals should be monitored. Dosage reduction is also recommended in individuals known to be a CYP2D6 poor metabolizer (CYP2D6 PM) because these individuals have higher pitolisant concentrations than normal CYP2D6 metabolizers.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during pitolisant treatment. Pitolisant may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives. Female patients using hormonal contraception should be advised to use an alternative non-hormonal contraceptive method during treatment with pitolisant and for at least 21 days after discontinuing treatment.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Pitolisant use is not recommended in individuals with end-stage renal disease (i.e., renal failure; eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2), as pitolisant has not been studied in this population. Dosage adjustments are recommended for individuals with moderate (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2) or severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2).
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use pitolisant with caution during lactation; consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for pitolisant and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from pitolisant or the underlying maternal condition. Pitolisant was found to pass into breast milk at low levels in an open-label study of 8 healthy lactating women who were 11 to 96 weeks postpartum. The concentration of pitolisant was evaluated in breast milk samples collected over 24 hours and serum samples were collected over 120 hours after a single dose of 35.6 mg of pitolisant was administered. Approximately 50% of the amount of pitolisant measured in breast milk occurred during the first 4 hours post dose. Based on the study, the mean infant dose was 0.009 mg/day, less than 1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose. There are no data on the effects of pitolisant on the breastfed infant or the effect of pitolisant on milk production.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of pitolisant in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with pitolisant use during human pregnancy. Available case reports from clinical trials and postmarketing reports with pitolisant use in pregnant women have not determined a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. In animal reproductive studies, administration of pitolisant during organogenesis caused maternal and embryofetal toxicity in rats and rabbits at doses 13 or greater and 4 times or greater the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 35.6 mg based on mg/square meter body surface area, respectively. The no observed adverse effect dose for maternal toxicity and embryofetal development were 2 and 4 times the MRHD based on body surface area, respectively. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to pitolisant during pregnancy. To enroll or obtain information, patients can call 1-800-833-7460. The effects of pitolisant during labor and obstetric delivery are unknown.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use pitolisant with caution during lactation; consider the developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding along with the mother's clinical need for pitolisant and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from pitolisant or the underlying maternal condition. Pitolisant was found to pass into breast milk at low levels in an open-label study of 8 healthy lactating women who were 11 to 96 weeks postpartum. The concentration of pitolisant was evaluated in breast milk samples collected over 24 hours and serum samples were collected over 120 hours after a single dose of 35.6 mg of pitolisant was administered. Approximately 50% of the amount of pitolisant measured in breast milk occurred during the first 4 hours post dose. Based on the study, the mean infant dose was 0.009 mg/day, less than 1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose. There are no data on the effects of pitolisant on the breastfed infant or the effect of pitolisant on milk production.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with diphenhydramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like diphenhydramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with pyrilamine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like pyrilamine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with doxylamine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like doxylamine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with diphenhydramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like diphenhydramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with pyrilamine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like pyrilamine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with alfuzosin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with amisulpride as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant therapy is unavoidable, monitor ECGs. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Amobarbital: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with clarithromycin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Anagrelide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with anagrelide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects.
Apalutamide: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with apalutamide is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Apomorphine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with apomorphine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with arsenic trioxide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant drug use is unavoidable, frequently monitor electrocardiograms. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP), QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with artemether; lumefantrine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if pitolisant must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with asenapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with pitolisant is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Azelastine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with azelastine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like azelastine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with azelastine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like azelastine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with bedaquiline as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Monitor ECGs if coadministration is necessary. Discontinue bedaquiline if evidence of serious ventricular arrhythmia or QTcF interval greater than 500 ms. Both bedaquiline and pitolisant prolong the QT interval.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Brompheniramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with brompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like brompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with brompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like brompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with brompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like brompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with brompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like brompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with brompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like brompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and buprenophine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and buprenophine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
buPROPion: (Major) A pitolisant dosage reduction may be required during concomitant bupropion use. For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Concomitant use may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for pitolisant-related adverse effects. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) A pitolisant dosage reduction may be required during concomitant bupropion use. For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Concomitant use may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for pitolisant-related adverse effects. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and carbamazepine may decrease the exposure of both drugs which may reduce their efficacy. For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with carbamazepine is necessary. Additionally, monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Carbinoxamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with carbinoxamine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like carbinoxamine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and pitolisant. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pitolisant is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If pitolisant is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with ceritinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dexbrompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like dexbrompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dexchlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like dexchlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Chlorcyclizine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorcyclizine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorcyclizine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with pitolisant due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Chlorpheniramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like chlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with chlorpromazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cisapride with pitolisant is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including TdP and death, have been reported with cisapride. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with clarithromycin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Clemastine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with clemastine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like clemastine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
cloZAPine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with clozapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dexbrompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like dexbrompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with promethazine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like promethazine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with promethazine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like promethazine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with pitolisant due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib can cause concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Cyproheptadine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with cyproheptadine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like cyproheptadine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Dacomitinib: (Major) A pitolisant dosage reduction may be required during concomitant dacomitinib use. For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Concomitant use may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for pitolisant-related adverse effects. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate and dacomitinib is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dasatinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Degarelix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with degarelix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Desflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with halogenated anesthetics as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Desipramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with deutetrabenazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dexbrompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like dexbrompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dexbrompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like dexbrompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dexbrompheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like dexbrompheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dexchlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like dexchlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dexchlorpheniramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like dexchlorpheniramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) A pitolisant dosage reduction may be required during concomitant bupropion use. For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Concomitant use may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for pitolisant-related adverse effects. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate and bupropion is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with diphenhydramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like diphenhydramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half for patients on a stable dose of pitolisant. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate, quinidine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with dimenhydrinate as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like dimenhydrinate, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with diphenhydramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like diphenhydramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with diphenhydramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like diphenhydramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with diphenhydramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like diphenhydramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with diphenhydramine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like diphenhydramine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Disopyramide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with disopyramide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and pitolisant is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with donepezil as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with donepezil as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Doxepin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Doxylamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with doxylamine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like doxylamine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with doxylamine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like doxylamine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of dronedarone with pitolisant is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1,600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with droperidol as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, use extreme caution; initiate droperidol at a low dose and increase the dose as needed to achieve the desired effect. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Some cases have occurred in patients with no known risk factors for QT prolongation and some cases have been. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Drospirenone: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with efavirenz as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with efavirenz as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with efavirenz as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Eliglustat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with eliglustat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
Encorafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of encorafenib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, for patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with entrectinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Enzalutamide: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with enzalutamide is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
eriBULin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with eribulin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, monitor ECG. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with fingolimod as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and fluconazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half for patients on a stable dose of pitolisant. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate, fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Fluphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, fluphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation, such as pitolisant.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with fluvoxamine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported during fluvoxamine postmarketing use.
Foscarnet: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with foscarnet as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported during postmarketing use of foscarnet.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with fosphenytoin is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with fostemsavir as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with gemifloxacin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with gemtuzumab ozogamicin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with gilteritinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Gilteritinib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with pitolisant due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with goserelin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with granisetron as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Granisetron has been associated with QT prolongation.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with halogenated anesthetics as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Haloperidol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with haloperidol as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with histrelin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with hydroxyzine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like hydroxyzine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Postmarketing data indicate that hydroxyzine causes QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Ibutilide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with ibutilide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with iloperidone as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Iloperidone has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Imipramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab with pitolisant due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG before and during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Isoflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with halogenated anesthetics as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with itraconazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with pitolisant due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pitolisant due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with clarithromycin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with lapatinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for evidence of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with pitolisant as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with lenvatinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Prolongation of the QT interval has also been reported with lenvatinib therapy.
Leuprolide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with leuprolide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pitolisant due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with lofexidine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, ECG monitoring is recommended during treatment. Both pitolisant and lofexidine prolong the QT interval.
Loperamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with loperamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. At high doses, loperamide has been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with pitolisant due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with pitolisant. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with lumacaftor; ivacaftor is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and pitolisant as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as pitolisant. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and mavorixafor increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half for patients on a stable dose of pitolisant. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate, mavorixafor is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Meclizine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with meclizine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like meclizine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy.
Mefloquine: (Minor) Coadministration of pitolisant and mefloquine may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval; however, mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation.
Methadone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with methadone as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (more than 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction.
Methohexital: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with midostaurin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, consider interval assessments of QT by EKG. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin in clinical trials.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with mirtazapine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like mirtazapine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Mirtazapine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported postmarketing, primarily in overdose or in patients with other risk factors for QT prolongation.
Mitotane: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with mitotane is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of moxifloxacin with pitolisant as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinolones have been associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Although extremely rare, TdP has been reported during postmarketing surveillance of moxifloxacin. These reports generally involved patients with concurrent medical conditions or concomitant medications that may have been contributory. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with pitolisant. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with nilotinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Sudden death and QT interval prolongation have occurred in patients who received nilotinib therapy.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of pitolisant is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and pitolisant may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with pitolisant. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Non-oral combination contraceptives: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with olanzapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with olanzapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval. (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half for patients on a stable dose of pitolisant. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate, fluoxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with olanzapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Oral Contraceptives: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with osilodrostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor ECGs. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with osimertinib due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with oxaliplatin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking pitolisant due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of paliperidone with pitolisant due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Panobinostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with panobinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat.
PARoxetine: (Major) A pitolisant dosage reduction may be required during concomitant paroxetine use. For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Concomitant use may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for pitolisant-related adverse effects. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate and paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Pasireotide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with pasireotide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with pazopanib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Pazopanib has also been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Pentamidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with pentamidine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Systemic pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation.
PENTobarbital: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation, such as pitolisant.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations). (Minor) Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, perphenazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation, such as pitolisant.
PHENobarbital: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Phenytoin: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with phenytoin is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with pitolisant due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Both pimavanserin and pitolisant prolong the QT interval.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of pimozide with pitolisant is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking pitolisant due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with posaconazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Procainamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with procainamide as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Prochlorperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, prochlorperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation, such as pitolisant.
Promethazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with promethazine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like promethazine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with promethazine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like promethazine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with promethazine as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like promethazine, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Promethazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Protriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of pitolisant and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for other adverse effects. Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half for patients on a stable dose of pitolisant. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Additionally, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate, quinidine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
quiNINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with quinine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP).
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with ranolazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with relugolix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy. (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with relugolix as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with ribociclib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with ribociclib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. The ribociclib ECG changes occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and were reversible with dose interruption.
rifAMPin: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with rifampin is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Rifapentine: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with rifapentine is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with rilpivirine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with risperidone as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir if coadministered with pitolisant. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of ritonavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with romidepsin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with saquinavir/ritonavir as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes (TdP).
Secobarbital: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with barbiturates is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients to use an alternative, non-hormonal contraceptive during and for at least 21 days after discontinuation of pitolisant. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and may decrease the plasma exposure of hormonal contraceptives resulting in decreased efficacy.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with selpercatinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration is necessary. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with halogenated anesthetics as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Halogenated anesthetics can also prolong the QT interval.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with siponimod as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of pitolisant. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Solifenacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with solifenacin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality was not determined.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with pitolisant due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Sorafenib is associated with QTc prolongation. Pitolisant also prolongs the QT interval.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with St. John's wort is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with sunitinib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for evidence of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Sunitinib can also prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tacrolimus as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is necessary, consider ECG and electrolyte monitoring periodically during treatment. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Tacrolimus may also prolong the QT interval and cause torsade de pointes (TdP).
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with telavancin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Terbinafine: (Major) A pitolisant dosage reduction may be required during concomitant terbinafine use. For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Concomitant use may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for pitolisant-related adverse effects. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate and terbinafine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tetrabenazine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc).
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of thioridazine with pitolisant is contraindicated due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Tipranavir: (Major) A pitolisant dosage reduction may be required during concomitant tipranavir use. For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant, reduce the pitolisant dosage by half. For patients starting pitolisant, reduce the maximum recommended dosage by half to 17.8 mg once daily for adults and patients 6 years and older weighing 40 kg or more or 8.9 mg once daily for patients 6 years and older weighing less than 40 kg. Concomitant use may increase pitolisant exposure and the risk for pitolisant-related adverse effects. Pitolisant is a CYP2D6 substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor increased pitolisant overall exposure by 2.2-fold.
Tolterodine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tolterodine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with toremifene as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs and electrolytes. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pitolisant is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If pitolisant is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with pitolisant is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If pitolisant is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and pitolisant is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Trifluoperazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, trifluoperazine may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with other drugs that have a risk of QT prolongation, such as pitolisant.
Trimipramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) as the effect of pitolisant may be decreased; concurrent use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant increases histamine concentrations in the brain; therefore, H1-receptor antagonists like TCAs, may reduce pitolisant efficacy. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. TCAs share pharmacologic properties similar to the Class IA antiarrhythmic agents and may prolong the QT interval, particularly in overdose or with higher-dose prescription therapy (elevated serum concentrations).
Triptorelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with triptorelin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with pitolisant due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with vemurafenib as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration is necessary, monitor ECG. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Vemurafenib has also been associated with QT prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pitolisant and voclosporin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with clarithromycin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP).
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with voriconazole as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes.
Vorinostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with vorinostat as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with pitolisant is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. Pitolisant is a weak CYP3A4 inducer and the R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A4 substrate. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with ziprasidone as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, weight gain, xerostomia
    General Information
    Nausea (6%), abdominal pain (3%), decreased appetite or anorexia (3%), and dry mouth or xerostomia (2%) were reported in pitolisant-treated patients during adult clinical trials. Weight gain has been observed during postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight gain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abnormal dreams, anxiety, cataplexy, depression, hallucinations, insomnia, irritability, nightmares, sleep paralysis, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    Insomnia (6%, adults; 7%, pediatrics) was commonly reported in pitolisant-treated patients during clinical trials. Anxiety (5%), hallucinations (3%, including visual and hypnagogic hallucinations), sleep disorders (3%; dyssomnia, sleep disorder, sleep paralysis, and sleep talking), irritability (3%), and cataplexy (2%) were reported during adult clinical trials. Abnormal behavior, abnormal dreams, anhedonia, bipolar disorder, depression, depressed mood, nightmares, unspecified sleep disorder, suicide attempt, and suicidal ideation have been observed postmarketing.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abnormal dreams
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cataplexy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nightmares
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sleep paralysis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      suicidal ideation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    dizziness, headache, migraine, seizures
    General Information
    Headache (18%, adults; 19%, pediatrics) was commonly reported in pitolisant-treated patients during clinical trials. Migraine headache was also observed in adult clinical trials. Epilepsy, dizziness, and seizures have been observed during postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      migraine
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, carpal tunnel syndrome, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain, including arthralgia, back pain, carpal tunnel syndrome, limb discomfort, myalgia, neck pain, osteoarthritis, extremity pain, and sciatica, occurred in 5% of pitolisant-treated patients during adult clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      carpal tunnel syndrome
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Increases in heart rate, including tachycardia and sinus tachycardia, were observed in 3% of pitolisant-treated patients during adult clinical trials. Pitolisant is associated with QT prolongation. A QTc increase of 4.2 msec occurred at the highest recommended dosage of pitolisant (35.6 mg daily). Exposures 3.8-fold higher than that achieved at the highest recommended dose increased mean QTc 16 msec. One subject in pitolisant preclinical evaluations experienced QT prolongation after ingestion of 9-times the maximum recommended daily dose (320.4 mg). The individual was monitored in the hospital, received supportive care, and was discharged the following day without sequelae.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Upper respiratory tract infection, including pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract inflammation, and unspecified upper respiratory tract infection, occurred in 5% of pitolisant-treated patients during adult clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, atopic dermatitis, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Rash, including eczema or atopic dermatitis, erythema migrans, and urticaria, was reported in 2% of pitolisant-treated patients during adult clinical trials. Hypersensitivity (anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions) and pruritus have been observed during postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      atopic dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue has been observed during postmarketing experience with pitolisant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Pitolisant is a histamine-3 (H3) receptor antagonist/inverse agonist indicated for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) or cataplexy in individuals with narcolepsy. Pitolisant is the first FDA-approved treatment for narcolepsy that is not a controlled substance. The efficacy of pitolisant for the treatment of EDS in adults was established in 2 placebo-controlled trials of 8 weeks duration. In both trials, pitolisant-treated subjects had significantly improved EDS during activities of daily living as measured using the least-squares mean final Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) vs. ESS scores for subjects receiving placebo. During studies for cataplexy in adults, treated subjects had a significant change in the geometric mean number of cataplexy attacks per week from baseline vs. placebo. The use of pitolisant in pediatric patients was established in a placebo-controlled, 8-week trial of 110 subjects with narcolepsy and a Pediatric Daytime Sleepiness Scale (PDSS) score of 15 or more. Subjects receiving pitolisant had a statistically significant improvement in the least square mean change from baseline to end of treatment in final PDSS total score compared to placebo (-3.41 points; 95% CI: -5.52, -1.31). The efficacy of pitolisant for the treatment of cataplexy in pediatric patients with narcolepsy was evaluated in 1 multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. There was a statistically significant improvement in the least square mean change from baseline to the end of treatment for the average number of cataplexy attacks per week (weekly rate of cataplexy [WRC]) compared to placebo (2.2 vs. 5.6). The rate ratio, defined as the WRC ratio of the pitolisant group to the placebo group adjusted for baseline value, was 0.39 (95% CI: 0.17; 0.90).The drug may cause QT prolongation and is contraindicated in individuals with severe hepatic impairment. Pitolisant was FDA approved in August 2019.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Pitolisant is a selective antagonist/inverse agonist of the histamine-3 (H3) receptor. HIstamine H3 receptors are mainly located in the brain. Activation of histaminergic neurons increases histamine release that promotes wakefulness, attention, and memory. Pitolisant regulates the release of other neurotransmitters involved in wake promotion, including dopamine, noradrenaline, and acetylcholine.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Oral absorption of pitolisant is approximately 90%. The Tmax of pitolisant is 3.5 hours (range: 2 to 5 hours). The Cmax and AUC of pitolisant are 73 nanogram/mL (range: 49.2 to 126 nanogram/mL) and 821 nanogram x hour/mL (range: 518 to 1,468 nanogram x hour/mL), respectively, after administration of 35.6 mg once daily. The Cmax and AUC increase proportionally with the dose. Steady-state is reached by day 7 of treatment. No significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of pitolisant were observed after administration with a high-fat meal (approximately 950 calories, 62% fat).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The AUC of pitolisant was increased by an approximate factor of 3 among 6 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) compared to 12 healthy subjects after receipt of a single 17.8 mg dose. The Cmax increased by an approximate factor of 1.5; however, the increase was not statistically significant. Among 6 subjects with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) there were no significant changes in Cmax or AUC compared to healthy subjects. The effects of severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) on the pharmacokinetics of pitolisant are unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The Cmax of pitolisant increased by an approximate factor of 3 among 4 subjects with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/minute/1.73 m2) compared to 12 healthy subjects after receipt of a single 17.8 mg dose. AUC increased by an approximate factor of 2 among subjects with severe renal impairment. In 4 subjects with moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2), AUC and Cmax increased by approximate factors of 2 and 1.5, respectively; the increase in Cmax was not statistically significant. In 4 subjects with mild renal impairment (eGFR 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more), AUC and Cmax increased by an approximate factor of 2; the increases in AUC were not statistically significant. The effects of end-stage renal disease (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2) on the pharmacokinetics of pitolisant are unknown.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Data from a single dose pharmacokinetic study of pediatric patients (7 to 17 years) with narcolepsy suggest that pediatric patients have increased exposure to pitolisant compared to adults. The Cmax and AUC of pitolisant were 2.2- and 2-fold higher, respectively, in subjects 12 to 17 years. In subjects 7 to 11 years, the Cmax and AUC were 3.4- and 3.6-fold higher, respectively.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of pitolisant based on age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of pitolisant based on gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of pitolisant based on race.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of pitolisant based on body weight (48 to 103 kg).
    Name
    Other
    Description
    CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers
After administration of pitolisant 17.8 mg daily for 7 days, the Cmax and AUC were approximately 2.1 and 2.4 times higher, respectively, among CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (n = 3) compared to CYP2D6 normal metabolizers (n = 5). Pitolisant is metabolized by CYP2D6. The gene encoding CYP2D6 has variants that affect 2D6 metabolic function. CYP2D6 poor metabolizers are individuals with 2 nonfunctional alleles (e.g., CYP2D6*5/*5), and as a result have no CYP2D6 enzyme activity. The prevalence of CYP2D6 poor metabolizers is approximately 7% in White subjects, 2% in Asian subjects, and 2% in Black or African American subjects.
  Text
  Pitolisant is administered orally. The approximate apparent Vd of pitolisant is 700 L (5 to 10 L/kg). Serum protein binding is 91% to 96%. The blood to plasma ratio of pitolisant is 0.55 to 0.89. Metabolism primarily occurs by CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A4. Metabolites are not pharmacologically active and further metabolized or conjugated with glycine or glucuronic acid. Approximately 90% of a single 17.8 mg dose is excreted in urine (less than 2% unchanged) and 2.3% is excreted in the feces. The median half-life of pitolisant is approximately 20 hours (7.5 to 24.2 hours) after administration of a single 35.6 mg dose.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP3A4
Pitolisant is predominately metabolized by CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A4. Concomitant administration of pitolisant with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors increases pitolisant exposure by 2.2-fold, and dose reductions of pitolisant are needed. Strong CYP3A4 inducers decrease exposure of pitolisant by 50%; dose adjustments may be necessary, as long as the usual maximum dosage is not exceeded. Pitolisant is a borderline/weak inducer of CYP3A4. Therefore, reduced effectiveness of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates, such as hormonal contraceptives, may occur when used concomitantly with the drug.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer each dose in the morning upon patient wakening.
If a dose is missed, skip the missed dose and administer the next dose the following day in the morning upon wakening.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    35.6 mg/day PO; 17.8 mg/day PO for CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    35.6 mg/day PO; 17.8 mg/day PO for CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    weighing 40 kg or more: 35.6 mg/day PO; 17.8 mg/day PO for CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.
weighing less than 40 kg: 17.8 mg/day PO; 8.9 mg/day PO for CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    6 to 12 years weighing 40 kg or more: 35.6 mg/day PO; 17.8 mg/day PO for CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.
6 to 12 years weighing less than 40 kg: 17.8 mg/day PO; 8.9 mg/day PO for CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.
1 to 5 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Adults
Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A): No dosage adjustment is needed.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B): 8.9 mg PO once daily initially, then increase after 14 days to a maximum of 17.8 mg PO once daily.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Use is contraindicated.
 
Pediatrics (6 to 17 years)
Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A): No dosage adjustment is needed.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B):
weighing 40 kg or more: 4.45 mg PO once daily initially, then increase after 14 days to 8.9 mg PO once daily. May increase after another 14 days to a maximum of 17.8 mg PO once daily.
weighing less than 40 kg: 4.45 mg PO once daily initially, then increase after 14 days to a maximum of 8.9 mg PO once daily.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Use is contraindicated.
  Renal Impairment
  Adults
eGFR 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
eGFR 15 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2: 8.9 mg PO once daily initially, then increase dose after 7 days to a maximum of 17.8 mg PO once daily.
eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Use is not recommended in end-stage renal disease (ESRD); no studies are available in these patients.
 
Pediatrics (6 to 17 years)
eGFR 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more: No dosage adjustment is needed.
eGFR 15 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2:
weighing 40 kg or more: 4.45 mg PO once daily initially, then increase dose after 7 days to 8.9 mg PO once daily. May increase after another 7 days to a maximum of 17.8 mg PO once daily.
weighing less than 40 kg: 4.45 mg PO once daily initially, then increase dose after 7 days to a maximum of 8.9 mg PO once daily.
eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2: Use is not recommended in end-stage renal disease (ESRD); no studies are available in these patients.
