=== Eluxadoline (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 4001)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Eluxadoline is an oral mu and kappa opioid receptor agonist and a delta opioid receptor antagonist.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 200 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): gastroesophageal reflux, gi perforation, dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, fatigue, impaired cognition, psychological dependence, angioedema, chest pain (unspecified), dyspnea, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria, bronchospasm, infection, pharyngitis, respiratory depression, wheezing

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Eluxadoline is contraindicated in individuals with an absent gallbladder, known or suspected biliary duct obstruction, or sphincter of Oddi dysfunction.

Brand Names
  - Viberzi

Dosage Forms
  - Viberzi 100mg Tablet
  - Viberzi 75mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        100 mg PO twice daily. Reduce dose to 75 mg PO twice daily in persons unable to tolerate higher dose. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Discontinue treatment in persons who develop severe constipation.
    Heading
    For the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    absent gallbladder, alcohol use disorder, biliary duct obstruction, ethanol ingestion, pancreatitis, sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, structural pancreatic disease
    General Information
    Eluxadoline is contraindicated in individuals with an absent gallbladder, known or suspected biliary duct obstruction, or sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. These individuals are at increased risk for serious adverse events related to sphincter of Oddi spasm and/or pancreatitis. Treatment with eluxadoline is contraindicated in people with a history of pancreatitis, structural pancreatic disease including known or suspected pancreatic duct obstruction, or individuals with alcohol use disorder (e.g., alcoholism, alcohol addiction or abuse, or consumption of more than 3 alcoholic drinks per day) due to the increased risk of pancreatitis in these populations. Pancreatitis, with or without sphincter of Oddi spasm, has been reported in patients taking eluxadoline, including serious and fatal cases resulting in hospitalization, primarily in people without a gallbladder. Evaluate an individual's alcohol intake prior to starting eluxadoline and instruct eluxadoline recipients to avoid chronic or acute excessive ethanol ingestion while taking the drug.
    Headline
    constipation, mechanical intestinal obstruction
    General Information
    Administration of eluxadoline is contraindicated in people with chronic or severe constipation and in individuals with known or suspected mechanical intestinal obstruction. These individuals may be at risk for severe complications of bowel obstruction. Constipation, sometimes requiring hospitalization, has been reported following eluxadoline administration. In postmarketing experience, severe cases with the development of intestinal obstruction, GI perforation, and fecal impaction, requiring intervention, have also been reported. Monitor all drug recipients closely for the development of constipation and discontinue treatment in individuals who develop severe constipation. Avoid the use of eluxadoline with other drugs that may cause constipation.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, driving or operating machinery, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Eluxadoline is contraindicated in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure, as drug exposures (AUC) are increased 16-fold. A dosage reduction is recommended for people with mild (Child-Pugh class A) to moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment due to 4 and 6-fold increases in exposure, respectively. Monitor treated individuals with hepatic impairment for impaired mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities requiring coordination and concentration, such as driving or operating machinery, and for other eluxadoline-related adverse reactions.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    A dosage adjustment is required in people with moderate or severe renal impairment, and in individuals with end-stage renal disease (ESRD, renal failure) not yet receiving dialysis. In clinical trials, these individuals had increased exposure of eluxadoline. No dosage adjustment is needed for individuals with mild renal impairment.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of eluxadoline during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. In animal studies, no teratogenic effects were observed in animals given oral and subcutaneous doses that resulted in exposures approximately 51 and 115 times the human exposure. In a pre- and postnatal development study in rats, no adverse effects were observed in offspring with oral administration of eluxadoline at doses approximately 10 times the human exposure.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use eluxadoline with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of eluxadoline in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production. Eluxadoline is present in animal milk. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of eluxadoline during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. In animal studies, no teratogenic effects were observed in animals given oral and subcutaneous doses that resulted in exposures approximately 51 and 115 times the human exposure. In a pre- and postnatal development study in rats, no adverse effects were observed in offspring with oral administration of eluxadoline at doses approximately 10 times the human exposure.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use eluxadoline with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of eluxadoline in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production. Eluxadoline is present in animal milk. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as dihydrocodeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together. Additionally, concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with eluxadoline may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of dihydrocodeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of eluxadoline could decrease dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to dihydrocodeine. If eluxadoline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Eluxadoline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as hydrocodone. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of eluxadoline is necessary. If eluxadoline is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like eluxadoline can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If eluxadoline is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
ALFentanil: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as alfentanil. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Alosetron: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as alosetron. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Consider a reduction of the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and clarithromycin is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Anticholinergics: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of eluxadoline is necessary. If eluxadoline is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like eluxadoline can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If eluxadoline is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atazanavir: (Major) When administered concurrently with atazanavir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); atazanavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) When administered concurrently with atazanavir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); atazanavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. (Major) When administered concurrently with cobicistat, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); cobicistat is an OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Atogepant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with eluxadoline. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and eluxadoline is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Atropine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days. (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as opium. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with eluxadoline may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. Consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Discontinuation of eluxadoline in a patient taking benzhydrocodone may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If eluxadoline is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a substrate for CYP3A4. Eluxadoline is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Benztropine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with eluxadoline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and eluxadoline is a BCRP inhibitor.
Brincidofovir: (Moderate) Postpone the administration of eluxadoline for at least three hours after brincidofovir administration and increase monitoring for brincidofovir-related adverse reactions (i.e., elevated hepatic enzymes and bilirubin, diarrhea, other gastrointestinal adverse events) if concomitant use of brincidofovir and eluxadoline is necessary. Brincidofovir is an OATP1B1 substrate and eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, the mean AUC and Cmax of brincidofovir increased by 374% and 269%, respectively, when administered with another OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Ceritinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in eluxadoline-related adverse reactions including impaired mental or physical abilities if coadministration with ceritinib is necessary. The metabolism of eluxadoline by CYP pathways has not been clearly established, but strong CYP inhibitors such as ceritinib have the potential to increase eluxadoline exposure.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as hydrocodone. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Consider a reduction of the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and clarithromycin is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Cobicistat: (Major) When administered concurrently with cobicistat, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); cobicistat is an OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Codeine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as codeine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) When administered concurrently with cyclosporine, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); cyclosporine is an OATP inhibitor. Use of these drugs together results in a 4.4-fold increase in exposure (AUC) and a 6.2-fold increase in maximum plasma concentration of eluxadoline. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Darolutamide: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with darolutamide. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and darolutamide is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) When administered concurrently with cobicistat, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); cobicistat is an OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) When administered concurrently with cobicistat, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); cobicistat is an OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with eluxadoline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and eluxadoline is a BCRP inhibitor.
Dicyclomine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Elagolix: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of elagolix and organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 inhibitors such as eluxadoline is contraindicated. Use of elagolix with drugs that inhibit OATP1B1 may increase elagolix plasma concentrations. Elagolix is a substrate of OATP1B1. Eluxadoline inhibits OATP1B1. Increased elagolix concentrations increase the risk for dose-related side effects, including loss of bone mineral density.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of elagolix and organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 inhibitors such as eluxadoline is contraindicated. Use of elagolix with drugs that inhibit OATP1B1 may increase elagolix plasma concentrations. Elagolix is a substrate of OATP1B1. Eluxadoline inhibits OATP1B1. Increased elagolix concentrations increase the risk for dose-related side effects, including loss of bone mineral density.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects including decreased mental and physical acuity if coadministered with elexacaftor. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and elexacaftor is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Eliglustat: (Major) In poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs), coadministration of eluxadoline and eliglustat is not recommended. In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of eluxadoline and eliglustat requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Eluxadoline is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor; eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate. Coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as eluxadoline, may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Eltrombopag: (Major) When administered concurrently with eltrombopag, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); eltrombopag is an in vitro inhibitor of OATP1B1. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) When administered concurrently with cobicistat, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); cobicistat is an OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with eluxadoline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and eluxadoline is a BCRP inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) When administered concurrently with cobicistat, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); cobicistat is an OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with eluxadoline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and eluxadoline is a BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with eluxadoline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and eluxadoline is a BCRP inhibitor.
Enasidenib: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with enasidenib. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and enasidenib is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Encorafenib: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects including decreased mental and physical acuity if coadministered with encorafenib. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and encorafenib is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Erythromycin: (Major) Consider reduction of the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with erythromycin. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and erythromycin is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
fentaNYL: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as fentanyl. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
flavoxATE: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Gemfibrozil: (Major) When administered concurrently with gemfibrozil, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); gemfibrozil is an OATP1B1/2B1 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg PO twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with glecaprevir. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combined effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); glecaprevir is an OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor. This specific interaction has not been evaluated; however, administration of eluxadoline with another OATP inhibitor resulted in elevated exposure (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration of eluxadoline by 4.4- and 6.2-fold, respectively. (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg PO twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with pibrentasvir. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combined effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); pibrentasvir is an OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitor. This specific interaction has not been evaluated; however, administration of eluxadoline with another OATP inhibitor resulted in elevated exposure (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration of eluxadoline by 4.4- and 6.2-fold, respectively.
Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days. (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as hydrocodone. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as hydrocodone. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as hydrocodone. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as hydromorphone. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Consider a reduction of the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and clarithromycin is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Leflunomide: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with leflunomide. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and leflunomide is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to a maximum of 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with eluxadoline as concurrent use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; eluxadoline is reported to be a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, but clinically relevant drug-drug interactions with eluxadoline are not certain. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Leniolisib: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects including decreased mental and physical acuity if coadministered with leniolisib. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and leniolisib is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of eluxadoline and letermovir may increase the plasma concentration of both drugs. In patients receiving both letermovir and cyclosporine, administer eluxadoline at a dose of 75 mg twice daily, because cyclosporine increases the inhibitory potential of letermovir. If these drugs are given together, closely monitor for adverse events including impaired mental or physical abilities, tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, and gastrointestinal events. Both eluxadoline and letermovir are substrates and inhibitors of the organic anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP1B1).
Levorphanol: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as levorphanol. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) When administered concurrently with lopinavir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); lopinavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. (Major) When administered concurrently with ritonavir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); ritonavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as meperidine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Methadone: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as methadone. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Methscopolamine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Midostaurin: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with midostaurin. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and midostaurin is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Morphine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as morphine. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Neostigmine; Glycopyrrolate: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) When administered concurrently with ritonavir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); ritonavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with eluxadoline due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and eluxadoline is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
oxyBUTYnin: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of eluxadoline is necessary. If eluxadoline is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak inhibitor like eluxadoline can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If eluxadoline is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as oxymorphone. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Pramlintide: (Major) Due to its effects on gastric emptying, pramlintide should not be considered for patients taking medications that alter gastrointestinal motility (e.g., slow GI motility, such as eluxadoline). Consider alternative diabetic treatments. Patients using these medications have not been studied in pramlintide clinical trials. Severe constipation, which could result in bowel blockage, is a potential concern.
Probenecid: (Minor) Systemic exposure (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration of eluxadoline are increased by 35% and 31%, respectively, when administered concurrently with probenecid. According to the manufacturer, the increase in exposure is not expected to be clinically meaningful; no dosage adjustments are required during coadministration with probenecid.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Minor) Systemic exposure (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration of eluxadoline are increased by 35% and 31%, respectively, when administered concurrently with probenecid. According to the manufacturer, the increase in exposure is not expected to be clinically meaningful; no dosage adjustments are required during coadministration with probenecid.
Remifentanil: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as remifentanil. Opioids increase the tone and decrease the propulsive contractions of the smooth muscle within the gastrointestinal tract. Prolongation of the gastrointestinal transit time may be the mechanism of the constipating effect. Closely monitor for increased side effects if these drugs are administered together.
Resmetirom: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects including decreased mental and physical acuity if coadministered with resmetirom. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and resmetirom is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Ribociclib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in eluxadoline-related adverse reactions including impaired mental or physical abilities if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. The metabolism of eluxadoline by CYP pathways has not been clearly established, but strong CYP inhibitors such as ribociclib have the potential to increase eluxadoline exposure.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in eluxadoline-related adverse reactions including impaired mental or physical abilities if coadministration with ribociclib is necessary. The metabolism of eluxadoline by CYP pathways has not been clearly established, but strong CYP inhibitors such as ribociclib have the potential to increase eluxadoline exposure.
rifAMPin: (Major) When administered concurrently with rifampin, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); rifampin is an inhibitor of OATP. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects including decreased mental and physical acuity if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and rilzabrutinib is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) When administered concurrently with ritonavir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); ritonavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with eluxadoline. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with eluxadoline. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Saquinavir: (Major) When administered concurrently with saquinavir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); saquinavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) When administered concurrently with velpatasvir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); velpatasvir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) When administered concurrently with velpatasvir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); velpatasvir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. (Major) When administered concurrently with voxilaprevir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); voxilaprevir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if eluxadoline must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of eluxadoline is necessary. If eluxadoline is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor like eluxadoline can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If eluxadoline is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Minor) Systemic exposure (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration of eluxadoline are increased by 35% and 31%, respectively, when administered concurrently with probenecid. According to the manufacturer, the increase in exposure is not expected to be clinically meaningful; no dosage adjustments are required during coadministration with probenecid.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of eluxadoline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP substrate and eluxadoline is a BCRP inhibitor.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with eluxadoline is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a BCRP substrate and eluxadoline is a BCRP inhibitor.
Teriflunomide: (Major) When administered concurrently with teriflunomide, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); teriflunomide is an in vitro inhibitor of OATP.
Tipranavir: (Major) When administered concurrently with tipranavir, the dose of eluxadoline must be reduced to 75 mg PO twice daily, and the patient should be closely monitored for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity). Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is a substrate of the organic anion-transporting peptide (OATP1B1); tipranavir is an OATP1B1 inhibitor.
Trihexyphenidyl: (Major) Avoid use of eluxadoline with medications that may cause constipation, such as anticholinergics. Discontinue use of eluxadoline in patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days.
Voclosporin: (Major) Reduce the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects including decreased mental and physical acuity if coadministered with voclosporin. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and voclosporin is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Consider a reduction of the dose of eluxadoline to 75 mg twice daily and monitor for eluxadoline-related adverse effects (i.e., decreased mental and physical acuity) if coadministered with clarithromycin. Coadministration may increase exposure of eluxadoline. Advise patients against driving or operating machinery until the combine effects of these drugs on the individual patient is known. Eluxadoline is an OATP1B1 substrate and clarithromycin is a an OATP1B1 inhibitor. Coadministration with another OATP1B1 inhibitor increased the exposure of eluxadoline by 4.4-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux, GI perforation, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse events are common eluxadoline. Constipation, sometimes requiring hospitalization, has been reported following eluxadoline administration. Constipation (7% to 8%, less than 1% severe) is one of the most common adverse events associated with eluxadoline therapy. The majority of cases of constipation occurred within the first 3 months of therapy, with approximately 50% of these cases developing within the first 2 weeks of treatment. Monitor all drug recipients closely for the development of constipation and discontinue treatment in patients who develop severe constipation. In postmarketing experience, severe cases with development of intestinal obstruction, GI perforation, and fecal impaction, requiring intervention, have also been reported. Other gastrointestinal adverse events experienced by recipients of eluxadoline include nausea (7% to 8%), abdominal pain (6% to 7%), vomiting (4%), abdominal distention (3%), flatulence (3%), viral gastroenteritis (1 to 3%), and gastroesophageal reflux disease (2% or less).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI perforation
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, pancreatitis
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes (increased ALT, 2 to 3%; increased AST, 2% or less) were observed in patients receiving treatment with eluxadoline during clinical trials. Eluxadoline may cause adverse effects of the biliary tract and the pancreas. Eluxadoline, an opiate receptor agonist, may increase muscle tone in the biliary tract causing elevations in biliary tract pressures and spasms within the sphincter of Oddi. During clinical trials, sphincter of Oddi spasms were observed in 0.8% (n = 8 of 1,032) of patients receiving doses of 100 mg twice daily and 0.2% (n = 2 of 807) of patients receiving 75 mg twice daily. In most cases (80%), symptom onset occurred within the first week of treatment, and ceased with treatment discontinuation. Symptoms associated with sphincter of Oddi spasms include pancreatitis and acute abdominal pain associated with elevated hepatic enzymes (0.4%). A total of 6 patients (0.3%) developed pancreatitis during clinical trials, with only 1 case associated with sphincter of Oddi spasms. Of the other 5 cases, 3 were associated with excessive alcohol intake. All pancreatic events resolved upon discontinuation of the drug, with 83% (n = 5 of 6) resolving within 1 week. During postmarketing experience from May 2015, when eluxadoline was first approved, through February 2017, the FDA received 120 reports of serious cases of pancreatitis or death with eluxadoline. Seventy-six patients were hospitalized, of which 2 patients died. These 2 patients did not have a gallbladder. Some cases of serious pancreatitis or death also reported sphincter of Oddi spasm (n = 6) or abdominal pain (n = 16). Among the 84 cases that reported a time to onset of the adverse event, serious cases of pancreatitis or death occurred after 1 or 2 doses of eluxadoline (n = 48). Serious cases of pancreatitis also occurred subsequently with prolonged use (n = 36). Among the 68 cases that reported gallbladder status, 56 cases of pancreatitis or death occurred in patients who do not have a gallbladder; the majority of these patients were receiving the appropriate recommended dosage of eluxadoline (75 mg). Of the 56 cases in patients who do not have a gallbladder, 21 reported that the patient did not abuse alcohol and 35 did not report the patient’s alcohol use status. Of the 2 deaths reported, 1 death was associated with pancreatitis and 1 death was associated with sphincter of Oddi spasm. The case of death from pancreatitis was characterized by acute, severe abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting within 60 minutes of taking a single dose of eluxadoline. The case of death associated with sphincter of Oddi spasm reported severe abdominal pain and vomiting shortly after taking the first dose of eluxadoline. Both patients were hospitalized for treatment. The patient who experienced pancreatitis died within 3 days of taking the initial eluxadoline dose. Due to these reports, eluxadoline is contraindicated in patients who do not have a gallbladder because there is an increased risk of developing serious pancreatitis in these patients. Instruct patients to avoid excessive alcohol use while receiving eluxadoline. In addition, patients should be instructed to discontinue use of the drug and seek immediate medical attention if they experience acute abdominal or epigastric pain that radiates to the back or shoulder (with or without nausea and vomiting), and that is associated with elevations in pancreatic or hepatic enzyme concentrations. Patients who develop biliary duct obstruction or sphincter of Oddi spasms while taking eluxadoline should discontinue use of the drug and not be rechallenged.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria, fatigue, impaired cognition, psychological dependence
    General Information
    Eluxadoline is an opioid agonist/antagonist and may produce adverse effects on the central nervous system. Some patients, particularly those with hepatic dysfunction, may experience impairments in mental and physical abilities. During clinical trials, recipients of eluxadoline reported episodes of dizziness (3%), fatigue (3%), drowsiness (sedation or somnolence, 2% or less). Other neurologic effects reported with use of the drug include euphoria and a feeling of being drunk, consistent with impaired cognition (2% or less). Based on studies in monkeys and human clinical trials, there may be some potential for eluxadoline to cause psychological dependence. Studies in monkeys did not indicate a potential for physical dependence. The substance abuse potential of eluxadoline is not certain. In the 2 human abuse potential studies, supratherapeutic oral and intranasal doses of eluxadoline produced small but significant increases on positive subjective measures such as Drug Liking and High compared to placebo. Supratherapeutic oral and intranasal doses of eluxadoline also produced small but significant increases on negative subjective measures such as Drug Disliking and Dysphoria compared to placebo. In the same studies, oxycodone produced significantly greater responses on positive and negative subjective measures than those produced by eluxadoline and placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      impaired cognition
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angioedema, chest pain (unspecified), dyspnea, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash (unspecified), urticaria
    General Information
    During postmarketing experience, serious hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis) have been reported following eluxadoline administration; some reports occurred after the first 1 or 2 doses. Hypersensitivity reactions included angioedema, dyspnea, throat tightness, and chest pain (unspecified)/tightness. During clinical trials, 3% of eluxadoline recipients developed rash (unspecified). The term rash encompassed dermatitis, allergic dermatitis, erythematous rash, generalized rash, maculopapular rash, papular rash, rash with pruritus (pruritic rash), and urticaria. Instruct patients to immediately stop eluxadoline and seek medical attention if they experience symptoms suggestive of a hypersensitivity reaction.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    bronchospasm, infection, pharyngitis, respiratory depression, wheezing
    General Information
    Respiratory adverse events reported by patients treated with eluxadoline during clinical trials include upper respiratory tract infection (3 to 5%), naso-pharyngitis (3 to 4%), bronchitis (3%), asthma (2% or less), bronchospasm (2% or less), respiratory depression or failure (2% or less), and wheezing (2% or less).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      wheezing
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory depression
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Eluxadoline is an oral mu and kappa opioid receptor agonist and a delta opioid receptor antagonist. The drug is indicated for use in adults with irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D). Guidelines include eluxadoline as a treatment option for global IBS-D symptoms. FDA-approval was based on the results of two clinical studies involving a total of 2,426 adults with IBS-D. In these studies, patients were randomized to receive either eluxadoline 75 mg PO twice daily, 100 mg PO twice daily, or placebo. At treatment week 12, the composite response rates were higher in patients receiving the 75 mg (24% and 29%) and 100 mg (25% and 30%) treatment dose vs. the placebo group. Response to treatment was defined as a simultaneous improvement in daily worst abdominal pain score by at least 30% as compared to baseline weakly averages, and a reduction in the Bristol Stool Scale (BSS) to less than 5 on at least 50% of the days within a 12-week time interval. Monitor recipients of eluxadoline for constipation; patients who develop severe constipation lasting more than 4 days should discontinue use of the drug.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Eluxadoline is an agonist of the mu and kappa opioid receptors and an antagonist of the delta opioid receptor. The binding affinities (Ki) to human mu and delta opioid receptors are 1.8 nM and 430 nM, respectively. The Ki for human kappa opioid receptors has not been determined. When opioid receptors agonists, such as eluxadoline, interact with receptors located in the gastrointestinal tract, secretions from the stomach, pancreas, and biliary tract are decreased. The combination of effects of opiate agonists on the GI tract results in constipation and delayed digestion.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, eluxadoline displays linear pharmacokinetics with no accumulation resulting from repeated twice daily dosing. However, the pharmacokinetic parameters of eluxadoline are variable. In a study of health volunteers administered 100 mg doses, the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) ranged from 2 to 4 ng/mL, exposures (AUC) ranged from 12 to 22 ng x h/mL. The time to reach maximum plasma concentrations (Tmax) is also variable. Under fed conditions, the median Tmax was 1.5 hours (range: 1 to 8 hours). When given with food, the median Tmax was 2 hours (range: 0.5 to 6 hours). Administering eluxadoline with a high-fat meal (800 to 1000 calories, 50% from fat) decreases the Cmax by 50% and the AUC by 60%. The absolute bioavailability has not been determined.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Systemic exposure (AUC) to eluxadoline is increased in patients with hepatic impairment. Administration of a single 100 mg dose to patients with mild (Child-Pugh A), moderate (Child-Pugh B), and severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment resulted in AUCs that were increased by 4-, 6-, and 16-fold, respectively, over those with normal hepatic function. Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment; dose reductions are advised for those with mild to moderate impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Following a single oral 100 mg dose, the mean eluxadoline Cmax and AUC were 3.7-fold and 4.7-fold higher, respectively, in subjects with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2, n=2) and 2.4-fold and 5.9-fold higher, respectively, in subjects with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) not yet on dialysis (eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2, n=6) compared to healthy subjects with normal renal function (n=6). Dose reductions are advised for those with moderate to severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2) and in patients with ESRD not yet on dialysis.
  Text
  Eluxadoline is administered via the oral route. Following systemic absorption, the drug is 81% bound to human plasma proteins. The pathway by which the drug is metabolized has not been established; however, evidence suggests it may undergo glucuronidation resulting in an acyl glucuronide metabolite. The mean plasma elimination half-life ranges from 3.7 hours to 6 hours. Excretion occurs primarily through the feces, with 82.2% of an administered dose recovered within 336 hours; less than 1% is recovered in the urine after 192 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and transporters: Bile salt export pump (BSEP), multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP2), organic anion transporter (OAT3), organic anion-transporting polyprotein (OATP1B1)
In vitro studies indicate that eluxadoline is neither an inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4, nor an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6 at clinically relevant systemic concentrations. Although CYP2E1 was slightly inhibited by eluxadoline, clinically meaningful interactions are unlikely. Despite mechanism-based inhibition of CYP3A4 in vitro, eluxadoline did not have a clinically meaningful drug-drug interaction with the CYP3A4 substrate midazolam. In vitro studies suggest eluxadoline is a substrate for the transporters OAT3, OATP1B1, BSEP, and MRP2, but not for OCT1, OCT2, OAT1, OATP1B3, P-gp and BCRP. Based on in vitro studies, clinically meaningful interaction via inhibition of OCT1, OCT2, OAT2, OAT3, OATP1B3, BSEP and MRP2 by eluxadoline is unlikely. Cytochrome P450 and UGT pathways have minimal involvement in the metabolism of eluxadoline. It is unlikely that metabolism of eluxadoline by these enzymes has a clinically meaningful impact on systemic exposure.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer the tablets with food.
Missed dose: Skip the missed dose, and administer the next scheduled dose at the usual time.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B, score 9 or less): The recommended dose is 75 mg PO twice daily with food.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C, score more than 9): Use is contraindicated.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more: No dosage adjustment needed.
eGFR less than 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2: The recommended dose is 75 mg PO twice daily with food.
eGFR less than 15 mL/minute/1.73 m2 [includes those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) not yet on dialysis]: 75 mg PO twice daily with food.
