=== Sonrotoclax (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5667)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Sonrotoclax is an oral B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma after at least 2 lines of systemic therapy, including a Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 320 mg PO daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): infection, pharyngitis, pneumonitis, sinusitis, anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, hypercalcemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use sonrotoclax with caution in patients with renal impairment including renal failure. Emetic risk: Minimal/Low

Brand Names
  - BEQALZI

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of relapsed or refractory MCL after at least 2 lines of systemic therapy, including a BTK inhibitor
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          Initial week 1 dosing is as follows: 1 mg PO once daily on days 1, 2, 3, then 2 mg PO once daily on days 4, 5, 6, 7. The sonrotoclax dose is increased weekly over 4 weeks as follows: week 2: 5 mg/day on days 1, 2, 3, then 10 mg/day on days 4, 5, 6, 7; week 3: 20 mg/day on days 1, 2, 3, then 40 mg/day on days 4, 5, 6, 7; week 4: 80 mg/day on days 1, 2, 3, then 160 mg/day on days 4, 5, 6, 7; and week 5 and beyond: 320 mg/day. Continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, and/or discontinuation may be necessary if toxicity occurs. Patients should received the recommended prophylaxis for tumor lysis syndrome. After an estimated median follow-up of 11.9 months in a single-arm trial of patients with relapsed or refractory MCL who previously received anti-CD20-based therapy and a BTK inhibitor, the overall response rate was 52% (CR, 16%) and the median duration of response was 15.8 months, with a median time to response of 1.9 months.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Use sonrotoclax with caution in patients with renal impairment including renal failure. Sonrotoclax may cause serious or life threatening tumor lysis syndrome (TLS), with symptoms occurring within 4 hours after the first dose, at any dose increase, and upon restart following dosage interruption. Patients with higher tumor burden such as bulky lymphadenopathy or lymphocytosis and reduced renal function may be at increased risk of developing TLS; consider hospitalization and employ more frequent monitoring for high risk patients. Assess all patients for risk, provide appropriate prophylaxis for TLS, and evaluate blood chemistries; correct any abnormalities prior to starting sonrotoclax. Therapy interruption may be necessary; restart following dose modification guidance.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of sonrotoclax during pregnancy. Sonrotoclax may cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no available data on sonrotoclax use during human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. In animal reproductive studies, oral administration of sonrotoclax in pregnant mice during organogenesis resulted in decreased fetal weight and crown-rump length at exposures approximately 8 times the human AUC at the recommended target dose. In pregnant rabbits, sonrotoclax resulted in fetal external malformations (absent or open eye, cleft lip, misshapen mouth, acephalostoma) at exposures approximately 2 times the human AUC at the recommended target dose.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with sonrotoclax therapy. Sonrotoclax may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise individuals to use effective contraception while taking sonrotoclax and for 1 week after the last dose. Based on animal data, sonrotoclax may cause male and female infertility; the effects were reversible in animals.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during sonrotoclax treatment and for 1 week after the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of sonrotoclax or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of sonrotoclax during pregnancy. Sonrotoclax may cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no available data on sonrotoclax use during human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. In animal reproductive studies, oral administration of sonrotoclax in pregnant mice during organogenesis resulted in decreased fetal weight and crown-rump length at exposures approximately 8 times the human AUC at the recommended target dose. In pregnant rabbits, sonrotoclax resulted in fetal external malformations (absent or open eye, cleft lip, misshapen mouth, acephalostoma) at exposures approximately 2 times the human AUC at the recommended target dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during sonrotoclax treatment and for 1 week after the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of sonrotoclax or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and adagrasib is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with adagrasib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and clarithromycin is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with aprepitant/fosaprepitant is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and atazanavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and atazanavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with atazanavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold. (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and cobicistat is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Avacopan: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with avacopan is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Berotralstat: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with berotralstat is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and ceritinib is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with ceritinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and chloramphenicol is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with chloramphenicol is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with ciprofloxacin is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and clarithromycin is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Cobicistat: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and cobicistat is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Conivaptan: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with conivaptan is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Crizotinib: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with crizotinib is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with cyclosporine is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Darunavir: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and darunavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and cobicistat is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold. (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and darunavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and cobicistat is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold. (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and darunavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with darunavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
dilTIAZem: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with diltiazem is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Dronedarone: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with dronedarone is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Duvelisib: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with duvelisib is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and cobicistat is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and cobicistat is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with cobicistat is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and ensitrelvir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Erythromycin: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with erythromycin is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fedratinib: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with fedratinib is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fluconazole: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with fluconazole is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with fluvoxamine is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with fosamprenavir is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during sonrotoclax treatment due to the risk of increased sonrotoclax exposure and adverse reactions. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and idelalisib is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with idelalisib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Imatinib: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with imatinib is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with isavuconazonium is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Itraconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and itraconazole is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with itraconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 11-fold.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and ketoconazole is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and clarithromycin is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Lefamulin: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with oral lefamulin is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Lenacapavir: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with lenacapavir is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with letermovir or letermovir plus cyclosporine is necessary. For patients receiving letermovir alone: reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase and avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less; after the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. For patients receiving letermovir plus cyclosporine: concomitant use is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase; after the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate, letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine acts as a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and ketoconazole is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with ketoconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and lonafarnib is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with lonafarnib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and ritonavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and mifepristone is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with mifepristone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Nefazodone: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and nefazodone is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with nefazodone is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and nelfinavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with nelfinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with netupitant is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nilotinib: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with nilotinib is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and ritonavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Nirogacestat: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with nirogacestat is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and phenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Posaconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and posaconazole is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with posaconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Relacorilant: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and relacorilant is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with relacorilant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with ribociclib is necessary; specific management recommendations vary based on ribociclib dosage. For patients receiving ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day: reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase and avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less; after the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. For patients receiving ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day: concomitant use is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase; after the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with ribociclib is necessary; specific management recommendations vary based on ribociclib dosage. For patients receiving ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day: reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase and avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less; after the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. For patients receiving ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day: concomitant use is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase; after the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate, ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with rilzabrutinib is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with ritlecitinib is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and ritonavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with ritonavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Saquinavir: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and saquinavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with saquinavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
Tipranavir: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and tipranavir is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with tipranavir is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and tucatinib is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with tucatinib is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Verapamil: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with verapamil is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and clarithromycin is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with clarithromycin is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Concomitant use of sonrotoclax and voriconazole is contraindicated during the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax target daily dose to 20 mg if concomitant use with voriconazole is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased sonrotoclax overall exposure by 13-fold.
Voxelotor: (Major) A sonrotoclax dosage decrease is required if concomitant use with voxelotor is necessary. During the sonrotoclax initiation and ramp-up phase, reduce the sonrotoclax dose by at least 4-fold; avoid concomitant use when the sonrotoclax dose is 2 mg or less. After the sonrotoclax ramp-up phase, reduce the target daily dose of sonrotoclax to 80 mg. Concomitant use may increase sonrotoclax exposure which may increase the risk for sonrotoclax-related adverse effects. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    tumor lysis syndrome
    General Information
    Sonrotoclax may cause serious or life-threatening tumor lysis syndrome (TLS), with symptoms occurring as early as 4 hours after the first dose, at any dose increase, and upon restart following dosage interruption. Laboratory or clinical TLS occurred in 7% of mantle cell lymphoma patients following the recommended dose ramp-up. Assess all patients for risk, provide appropriate prophylaxis for TLS, and evaluate blood chemistries; correct any abnormalities prior to starting sonrotoclax. Consider hospitalization and employ more frequent monitoring for high risk patients. Therapy interruption may be necessary; restart following dose modification guidance.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tumor lysis syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, pharyngitis, pneumonitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Serious infections that occurred in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax included pneumonia (16%; grade 3 or 4, 10%; grade 5, 2.6%), upper respiratory tract infection (12%; grade 3 or 4, 1.7%), herpes zoster infection (less than 10%), and sepsis (less than 10%). Pneumonitis (less than 10%), febrile neutropenia (1.7%), and sudden death (1.7%) were also reported. Consider prophylactic antimicrobials and immunoglobulins according to guidelines. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity. The term pneumonia included COVID-19 pneumonia. The term upper respiratory tract infection included pharyngitis and sinusitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Serious or severe cytopenias, including lymphopenia, anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia, occurred in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial. Cell counts that decreased from baseline included lymphocytes (66%; grade 3 or 4, 29%), hemoglobin (52%; grade 3 or 4, 9%), neutrophils (50%; grade 3 or 4, 18%), and platelets (36%; grade 3 or 4, 9%). An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary depending on the severity.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercalcemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia
    General Information
    Electrolyte abnormalities (hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hyperuricemia, hypercalcemia) that decreased from baseline in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial included calcium (42%; grade 3 or 4, 1.7%), potassium (30%; grade 3 or 4, 4.3%), and sodium (29%; grade 3 or 4, 9%). Uric acid levels (42%) and calcium levels (21%) increased from baseline in the same trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypercalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes were reported in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial, with increases from baseline in AST (27%; grade 3 or 4, 2.8%), alkaline phosphatase (25%), and ALT (22%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nephrotoxicity
    General Information
    Nephrotoxicity, specifically increased serum creatinine levels from baseline, was reported in 32% (grade 3 or 4, 1.7%) of mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia
    General Information
    Hyperglycemia, specifically glucose levels that increased from baseline, was reported in 35% of mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue including asthenia (16%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%) was reported in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    edema, peripheral edema
    General Information
    Edema including peripheral edema (14%) occurred in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever (10%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%) was reported in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    Diarrhea (14%; grade 3 or 4, 1.7%), constipation (10%), nausea (less than 10%), vomiting (less than 10%), and stomatitis (less than 10%) were reported in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash
    General Information
    Rash (10%) occurred in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial. The term rash included dermatitis and drug eruption.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain including back pain and bone pain (10%) was reported in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache (less than 10%) was reported in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy (less than 10%) was reported in mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with sonrotoclax in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on animal findings, sonrotoclax may cause male and female infertility; the effects were reversible in animals.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Sonrotoclax is an oral B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma after at least 2 lines of systemic therapy, including a Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor. Due to a risk of tumor lysis syndrome, the dose is increased using a ramp-up dosing schedule; prophylactic hydration and antihyperuricemic agents are recommended starting prior to the first dose. Sonrotoclax was approved by the FDA in May 2026.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Sonrotoclax is a selective inhibitor of B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) protein. It binds to the BCL-2 protein, displacing pro-apoptotic proteins, thereby inducing apoptosis of cells. Overexpression of BCL-2 in various cancers mediates cell survival and has been associated with chemotherapeutic resistance. In nonclinical studies, sonrotoclax demonstrated cytotoxicity in cancer cells overexpressing BCL-2, with a series of intrinsic apoptotic events, including caspase activation.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The AUC was 3,395 nanogram x hour/mL (CV, 55%) and the Cmax was 353 nanogram/mL (CV, 49%) following sonrotoclax 320 mg once daily with a low-fat meal. Sonrotoclax Cmax and AUC increase in a less than dose proportional manner over the dosage range of 320 mg to 640 mg. Limited systemic accumulation of sonrotoclax was observed following repeated administration. The median Tmax of sonrotoclax was 4 hours (range, 1 to 8 hours) following 320 mg once daily dosing.
Following administration with a low-fat meal (approximately 333 to 500 kilocalories, 25% fat calories), the AUC and Cmax values of sonrotoclax were each increased by 1.5-fold. Following a high-fat meal (1,000 kilocalories, 50% fat), the AUC value increased by 2-fold and Cmax by 2.4-fold.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (bilirubin 3 times ULN or less and any AST) has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sonrotoclax. The effect of severe hepatic impairment (bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN with any AST) on the pharmacokinetics of sonrotoclax is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 mL/min or greater) has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sonrotoclax. The effect of severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min) on the pharmacokinetics of sonrotoclax is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (27 to 91 years) has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sonrotoclax.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Sex has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of sonrotoclax.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of sonrotoclax.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (37 to 165 kg) has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of sonrotoclax.
  Text
  Sonrotoclax is administered orally. Sonrotoclax plasma protein binding is 99% with a mean apparent volume of distribution of 482 L (CV, 38%). It is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and to a lesser extent by CYP2C8 in vitro. The mean terminal elimination half-life ranges from 4 to 6 hours with a mean apparent clearance of 94 L/hour (CV, 62%). Approximately 86% of the dose was recovered in feces (19.5% unchanged) and 0.28% in urine (0.04% unchanged) after a single radiolabeled dose of 20 mg.
Pharmacodynamics: Administration of sonrotoclax has the potential to increase the QTc interval. The largest mean increase in QTc interval was 7 msec (upper confidence interval, 14 msec) after administration of sonrotoclax 320 mg once daily with a low-fat meal in patients with mature B-cell malignancies. There is insufficient information to characterize the QTc effects of sonrotoclax at higher concentrations above recommended dose.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes or transporters: CYP3A, P-gp, BCRP
Sonrotoclax is a substrate of CYP3A, P-gp, and BCRP. Concomitant use with strong CYP3A inhibitors at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated; strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors increase sonrotoclax exposure. Avoid concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors at 1 mg and 2 mg dose level. Avoid coadministration with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers; concomitant use decreases sonrotoclax exposure. Coadministration with itraconazole (a strong CYP3A inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor) increased sonrotoclax AUC by 11-fold and Cmax by 4-fold. Coadministration with posaconazole (a strong CYP3A inhibitor) increased sonrotoclax AUC by 13-fold and Cmax by 7-fold. Sonrotoclax AUC decreased to 35% and Cmax to 58% following concomitant use of phenytoin (a strong CYP3A inducer). Sonrotoclax inhibits CYP3A in vitro, but this is not anticipated to have a clinically meaningful impact.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetics as necessary.
Recommended Prophylaxis
Provide tumor lysis syndrome prophylaxis with hydration and anti-hyperuricemic agents prior to first dose and continue as appropriate.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take with a meal and a glass of water at the same time each day.
Swallow tablets whole; do not chew, crush, or break tablets.
Do not consume grapefruit products, Seville oranges, or star fruit while taking sonrotoclax.
Patients should drink 6 to 8 glasses (about 1.5 to 2 L) of water each day starting 1 to 2 days before the first dose, on the day of the first dose, on any day the dose is increased, and at restart if applicable.
If a dose is missed, take within 8 hours of missing the dose. If more than 8 hours have passed, skip the dose that day and take the dose the next day at the scheduled time.
If vomiting occurs after a dose, do not take another dose that day; resume dosing the next day at the usual time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    320 mg PO daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    320 mg PO daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  No dose adjustments are recommended for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (bilirubin 3 times ULN or less and any AST). Sonrotoclax has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (bilirubin greater than 3 times ULN and any AST).
  Renal Impairment
  No dose adjustments are recommended for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 mL/min or higher). Sonrotoclax has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min).
