=== Omaveloxolone (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5444)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Omaveloxolone is a nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) activator indicated for the treatment of Friedreich ataxia.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 150 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Assess for baseline cardiac disease, including heart failure, or hyperlipidemia prior to initiation of omaveloxolone. Obtain a baseline B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) concentration.

Brand Names
  - SKYCLARYS

Dosage Forms
  - SKYCLARYS 50mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General dosing information:
Measure alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and total bilirubin prior to initiation of omaveloxolone, every month for the first 3 months of treatment, and periodically thereafter.
Measure BNP prior to initiation of omaveloxolone. Monitor for signs and symptoms of fluid overload, including sudden weight gain (3 pounds or more in 1 day, 5 pounds or more in 1 week), peripheral edema, palpitations, or shortness of breath.
Measure lipid parameters prior to initiation of omaveloxolone and periodically during treatment.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        150 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
        Heading
        Adolescents 16 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        150 mg PO once daily. Coadministration of certain medications may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of Friedreich ataxia

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    cardiac disease, hyperlipidemia
    General Information
    Assess for baseline cardiac disease, including heart failure, or hyperlipidemia prior to initiation of omaveloxolone. Obtain a baseline B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) concentration. Cardiomyopathy and cardiac failure are common in individuals with Friedreich ataxia. Subjects were excluded from omaveloxolone clinical trials if they had BNP concentrations more than 200 pg/mL prior to study entry, or a history of clinically significant left-sided heart disease and/or clinically significant cardiac disease, except for mild to moderate cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia. Treatment with omaveloxolone can cause changes in cholesterol.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Measure alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and total bilirubin prior to initiation of omaveloxolone. Avoid omaveloxolone use in individuals with Child-Pugh class C hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. Reduce the omaveloxolone dose and monitor closely for adverse reactions in individuals with Child-Pugh class B hepatic impairment.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risks associated with omaveloxolone use during human pregnancy. Animal studies demonstrate developmental toxicity, including embryo-fetal mortality, growth impairment, and neurobehavioral deficits in offspring, following administration during pregnancy or throughout pregnancy and lactation at plasma exposures comparable to or lower than those in humans. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in individuals exposed to omaveloxolone during pregnancy. Health care providers are encouraged to enroll pregnant individuals, or pregnant individuals may register themselves in the program by calling 1-866-609-1785 or by sending an email to SkyclarysPregnancySurveillance@ppd.com.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use omaveloxolone with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of omaveloxolone in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Omaveloxolone is excreted in the milk of lactating rats after oral administration. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risks associated with omaveloxolone use during human pregnancy. Animal studies demonstrate developmental toxicity, including embryo-fetal mortality, growth impairment, and neurobehavioral deficits in offspring, following administration during pregnancy or throughout pregnancy and lactation at plasma exposures comparable to or lower than those in humans. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in individuals exposed to omaveloxolone during pregnancy. Health care providers are encouraged to enroll pregnant individuals, or pregnant individuals may register themselves in the program by calling 1-866-609-1785 or by sending an email to SkyclarysPregnancySurveillance@ppd.com.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use omaveloxolone with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of omaveloxolone in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Omaveloxolone is excreted in the milk of lactating rats after oral administration. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and adagrasib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a weak CYP3A inducer like omaveloxolone with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and aprepitant/fosaprepitant. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and atazanavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and atazanavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with omaveloxolone is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and avacopan. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with omaveloxolone is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and berotralstat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and bexarotene. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and lenacapavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and bosentan. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and carbamazepine. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. The exposure of carbamazepine may also be decreased. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer and carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and omaveloxolone. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and cenobamate. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ceritinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and chloramphenicol. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ciprofloxacin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clozapine effectiveness if coadministered with omaveloxolone. Consideration should be given to increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When omaveloxolone is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Omaveloxolone is a weak inducer of CYP3A, one of the isoenzymes responsible for the metabolism of clozapine.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with omaveloxolone can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and conivaptan. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and crizotinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and cyclosporine. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Additionally, closely monitor cyclosporine concentrations and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate as concomitant use may also decrease cyclosporine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer and cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and dabrafenib. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Daprodustat: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in daprodustat efficacy during concomitant use of daprodustat and omaveloxolone. Concomitant use may decrease daprodustat exposure. Daprodustat is a CYP2C8 substrate and omaveloxolone is a CYP2C8 inducer.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and diltiazem. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Doravirine: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and omaveloxolone may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and omaveloxolone may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Minor) Concurrent administration of doravirine and omaveloxolone may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and dronedarone. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Drospirenone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and duvelisib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and efavirenz. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and elagolix. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and encorafenib. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ensitrelvir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and enzalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and erythromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and eslicarbazepine. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and etravirine. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and fedratinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of omaveloxolone is necessary. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like omaveloxolone with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and fexinidazole. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and fluconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and fluvoxamine. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and fosamprenavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during omaveloxolone treatment due to the risk for increased omaveloxolone exposure and adverse reactions. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and idelalisib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and imatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Iptacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in iptacopan efficacy during concomitant use of iptacopan and omaveloxolone; discontinue use of omaveloxolone if loss of efficacy of iptacopan is evident. Concomitant use may decrease iptacopan exposure. Iptacopan is a CYP2C8 substrate and omaveloxolone is a CYP2C8 inducer.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and isavuconazonium. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and itraconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and lefamulin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and lenacapavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and letermovir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. If also used with cyclosporine, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A substrates is similar to a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold while concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and lonafarnib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ritonavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Additionally, monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir as concomitant use may decrease ritonavir exposure. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and lorlatinib. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and omaveloxolone as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Although data are unavailable for weak CYP3A inducers, coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer significantly decreased lumateperone exposure.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Use mefloquine with caution if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary as concurrent use may decrease mefloquine exposure and efficacy. Mefloquine is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and mifepristone. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and mitotane. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and nafcillin. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A and CYP2C8 substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A and CYP2C8 inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with omaveloxolone. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and nefazodone. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and nelfinavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and netupitant. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and nilotinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ritonavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Additionally, monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir as concomitant use may decrease ritonavir exposure. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of omaveloxolone is necessary. Concomitant use may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and nirogacestat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with omaveloxolone as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Norgestrel: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A and CYP2C8 substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A and CYP2C8 inducer.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and pacritinib. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and pexidartinib. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and posaconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Progesterone: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Progestins: (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and relacorilant. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and repotrectinib. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ribociclib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ribociclib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and rifabutin. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and rifampin. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and rifapentine. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and rilzabrutinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ritlecitinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and ritonavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Additionally, monitor for decreased efficacy of ritonavir as concomitant use may decrease ritonavir exposure. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer and ritonavir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and saquinavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and barbiturates. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Advise patients taking estrogen hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens containing a minimum of 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Advise patients taking progestin hormones for contraception to consider an alternate or additional form of contraception, such as nonhormonal and/or barrier methods, during and for at least 1 month following discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may also be considered. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on omaveloxolone, with dose adjustments made based on clinical response. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase progestin elimination.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of omaveloxolone. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and sotorasib. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased omaveloxolone exposure by 48%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and St. John's wort. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if omaveloxolone must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; a tacrolimus dose adjustment may be needed. Concurrent administration may decrease tacrolimus concentrations. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and tipranavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with omaveloxolone is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If omaveloxolone is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and verapamil. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and tucatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with omaveloxolone as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; omaveloxolone is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ulipristal with omaveloxolone. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and verapamil. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and voriconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 50 mg once daily. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 4-fold.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of omaveloxolone and voxelotor. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease omaveloxolone dose to 100 mg once daily; additional dosage reductions may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase omaveloxolone exposure and the risk for omaveloxolone-related adverse effects. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased omaveloxolone overall exposure by 1.25-fold.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with omaveloxolone is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and omaveloxolone is a CYP3A inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache was reported in 37% of subjects treated with omaveloxolone (n = 51), compared to 25% of subjects given placebo (n = 52) during a clinical trial of persons with Friedreich ataxia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported during a clinical trial of persons with Friedreich ataxia who were treated with omaveloxolone (n = 51) vs. placebo (n = 52) include abdominal pain (29% vs. 6%), anorexia (12% vs. 4%), diarrhea (20% vs. 10%), nausea (33% vs. 13%), oropharyngeal pain (18% vs. 6%), and vomiting (16% vs. 12%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Treatment with omaveloxolone may cause elevated hepatic enzymes. Among 51 subjects who received omaveloxolone during a clinical trial, elevations in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) occurred in 37% of subjects, compared to 2% of subjects given placebo (n = 52). ALT or AST elevations more than 5 times or 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in 16% and 31%, respectively, of subjects treated with omaveloxolone. Maximum elevations in ALT and AST occurred within 12 weeks after starting omaveloxolone. Increases in hepatic enzymes were generally asymptomatic and reversible after discontinuation of omaveloxolone. Measure ALT, AST, and total bilirubin prior to treatment with omaveloxolone, every month for the first 3 months of treatment, and periodically thereafter. Immediately discontinue omaveloxolone and repeat liver function tests as soon as possible if transaminases increase to concentrations of 5 times the ULN or more, or 3 times the ULN or more with evidence of hepatic dysfunction. Omaveloxolone may be restarted with an appropriate increased frequency of monitoring if transaminase concentrations stabilize or resolve.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    back pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse reactions reported during a clinical trial of persons with Friedreich ataxia who were treated with omaveloxolone (n = 51) vs. placebo (n = 52) include back pain (13% vs. 8%), musculoskeletal pain (20% vs. 15%), and muscle cramps or spasms (14% vs. 6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Rash was reported in 10% of subjects treated with omaveloxolone (n = 51), compared to 4% of subjects given placebo (n = 52) during a clinical trial of persons with Friedreich ataxia. In addition, hypersensitivity (rash, urticaria) was reported in postmarketing experience with omaveloxolone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue was reported in 24% of subjects treated with omaveloxolone (n = 51), compared to 14% of subjects given placebo (n = 52) during a clinical trial of persons with Friedreich ataxia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia
    General Information
    Hypercholesterolemia was reported at 1 or more time points in 29% of subjects treated with omaveloxolone (n = 51) during a clinical trial of persons with Friedreich ataxia. Mean increases occurred within 2 weeks of initiation of omaveloxolone. A total of 16% of subjects treated with omaveloxolone experienced increases from baseline in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), compared to 8% of subjects given placebo. The mean increase in LDL-C for all subjects treated with omaveloxolone was 23.5 mg/dL at 48 weeks. A total of 6% of subjects treated with omaveloxolone experienced decreases from baseline in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), compared to 4% of subjects given placebo. The mean decrease in HDL-C for all subjects treated with omaveloxolone was 5.3 mg/dL at 48 weeks. Lipid abnormalities returned to baseline within 4 weeks of omaveloxolone discontinuation. Measure lipid parameters prior to initiation of omaveloxolone and periodically during treatment; manage lipid abnormalities according to guidelines. Treatment with omaveloxolone can cause an increase in B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP). In a clinical trial of persons with Friedreich ataxia, a total of 14% of subjects treated with omaveloxolone had an increase from baseline in BNP and a BNP above the upper limit of normal (100 pg/mL), compared to 4% of subjects given placebo. The incidence of elevation of BNP above 200 pg/mL was 4% in subjects treated with omaveloxolone. Whether the elevations in BNP are related to omaveloxolone or cardiac disease associated with Friedreich ataxia is unclear. Measure BNP prior to initiation of omaveloxolone. Monitor for signs and symptoms of fluid overload, including sudden weight gain (3 pounds or more in 1 day, 5 pounds or more in 1 week), peripheral edema, palpitations, or shortness of breath. If signs or symptoms of fluid overload develop, worsen, or require hospitalization, evaluate BNP and cardiac function, and manage appropriately; omaveloxolone discontinuation may be necessary. Elevations in BNP may indicate cardiac failure and should prompt an evaluation of cardiac function.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    influenza
    General Information
    Influenza was reported in 16% of subjects treated with omaveloxolone (n = 51), compared to 6% of subjects given placebo (n = 52) during a clinical trial of persons with Friedreich ataxia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Omaveloxolone is a nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) activator indicated for the treatment of Friedreich ataxia. The efficacy of omaveloxolone for the treatment of Friedreich ataxia was demonstrated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, in which omaveloxolone was compared to placebo over 48 weeks. Omaveloxolone significantly reduced modified Friedreich's Ataxia Rating Scale (mFARS) scores, suggesting less physical impairment of upper and lower limb coordination, upright stability, and bulbar function. In a post hoc analysis, lower mFARS scores were observed among subjects treated with omaveloxolone for 3 years compared to untreated subjects. Elevated hepatic enzymes and changes in cholesterol, including increased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and decreased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), have been reported with omaveloxolone use. Omaveloxolone was FDA-approved in February 2023.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Omaveloxolone activates the Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) pathway. Increased Nrf2 activity allows for improved mitochondrial function and reduction in oxidative stress or inflammation, which may impact the progression or severity of Friedreich ataxia.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The total plasma omaveloxolone exposure based on area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) increased in a dose-dependent and dose proportional manner over a dose range of 50 to 150 mg. The maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of omaveloxolone increased in a less than dose-proportional manner over the dose range in healthy, fasted subjects. The median (range) time to maximum concentration (Tmax) is 7 to 14 (1 to 24) hours. Coadministration of omaveloxolone with a high-fat meal (800 to 1000 calories, approximately 150, 250, and 500 to 600 calories from protein, carbohydrate, and fat, respectively) increased omaveloxolone Cmax and AUC values by approximately 350% and 15%, respectively, compared to fasted conditions. Omaveloxolone Cmax and AUC values were similar when the capsule contents were sprinkled over applesauce or when administered as intact capsules. The median Tmax was shortened from 10 to 6 hours when sprinkled on applesauce.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    In subjects with moderate and severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B and C), omaveloxolone clearance was reduced, resulting in higher plasma exposure of omaveloxolone. The omaveloxolone AUC increased up to 1.65-fold and Cmax increased up to 1.83-fold in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment. The omaveloxolone AUC increased up to 2.17-fold in subjects with severe hepatic impairment; however, this change was variable. There were no clinically significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of omaveloxolone in subjects with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A).
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Population pharmacokinetic analysis demonstrated that estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) values of 63 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of omaveloxolone. Therefore, mild renal impairment (eGFR 60 to 89 mL/minute/1.73 m2) is not expected to have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of omaveloxolone. The effect of moderate or severe renal impairment (eGFR 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or less) on the pharmacokinetics of omaveloxolone is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of omaveloxolone based on age (16 to 71 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of omaveloxolone based on sex.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of omaveloxolone based on race.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    There are no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of omaveloxolone based on body weight (41 to 128 kg).
  Text
  Omaveloxolone is administered orally. The mean apparent Vd of omaveloxolone is 7,361 L (105 L/kg for a 70 kg person). Plasma protein binding of omaveloxolone is 97%. Omaveloxolone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A. Minor metabolism occurs by CYP2C8 and CYP2J2. After a single oral dose of radiolabeled omaveloxolone 150 mg, 92% of the dose was recovered in feces (91% within 96 hours after administration), and 0.1% in urine. The mean apparent plasma clearance of omaveloxolone is 109 L/hour. The mean (range) terminal half-life of omaveloxolone is 57 hours (32 to 90 hours).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, CYP2J2, OAT1
Omaveloxolone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, with minor metabolism by CYP2C8 and CYP2J2. Omaveloxolone is an inducer of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 and inhibitor of OAT1.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after eating.
Swallow capsules whole. Do not crush or chew.
If unable to swallow the capsules, the capsules may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto 30 mL of applesauce.
Stir the mixture until homogeneous.
Swallow applesauce mixture immediately. Do not store for future use.
Do not mix the capsule contents with milk or orange juice.
The capsule or its contents are not for enteral feeding tube administration.
Missed dose: If a dose is missed, administer the next dose at its scheduled time the following day. Do not take double or extra doses.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    150 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    150 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    16 to 17 years: 150 mg/day PO.
13 to 15 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A): No dosage adjustment is necessary.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B): 100 mg PO once daily with close monitoring for adverse reactions. Consider a dosage decrease to 50 mg PO once daily if adverse reactions occur.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Avoid use.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
