=== Apomorphine — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 2269)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Apomorphine, a non-narcotic derivative of morphine, is approved as a sublingual film for the treatment of acute, intermittent 'off' episodes associated with Parkinson disease and as a subcutaneous injection for use in people with advanced Parkinson disease.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: Subcutaneous injection (e.g., Apokyn): 0.6 mL (6 mg) per single injection and 5 injections/day not to exceed 2 mL/day (20 mg)/day subcutaneously.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): drowsiness, headache, insomnia, sudden sleep onset, dyspnea, infection, rhinorrhea, yawning, angina, cardiac arrest, chest pain (unspecified), dizziness, flushing, heart failure, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, pallor, palpitations, qt prolongation, syncope, torsade de pointes, contact dermatitis, ecchymosis, injection site reaction, pruritus, agitation, anxiety, confusion, delirium

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Sodium metabisulfite is present in both the injectable and sublingual products and should not be used by patients with sulfite hypersensitivity. Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

APOMORPHINE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

Apokyn, KYNMOBI, ONAPGO

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of Parkinson disease

For the treatment of "off" episodes associated with Parkinson disease
Sublingual dosage
Adults


10 mg SL during an "off" state, initially. May increase by 5 mg/dose based on clinical response and tolerability and may repeat doses up to 5 times daily as needed for recurring "off" episodes. Max: 5 doses/day and 30 mg/dose. If a single dose is ineffective for a particular "off" episode, do not administer a second dose for that "off" episode; the efficacy or safety of administering a second dose for an "off" episode has not been studied.


Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


0.1 mL (1 mg) to 0.2 mL (2 mg) subcutaneously during an "off" state, initially. May increase the dose by 0.1 mL (1 mg)/dose every few days based on clinical response and tolerability and may repeat dose up to 5 times daily as needed for recurring "off" episodes. Max: 5 doses/day, 0.6 mL (6 mg)/dose, and 2 mL (20 mg) total daily dose.


For the treatment of motor fluctuations in adults with advanced Parkinson disease
Subcutaneous dosage (i.e., Onapgo)
Adults


1 mg/hour subcutaneously as a continuous infusion, initially. Titrate as needed in 0.1 to 1 mg/hour increments. Infusion dosage adjustments may be made daily or at longer intervals during the titration process. In clinical studies, the mean infusion rate was 4 mg/hour. Max continuous dosage is 6 mg/hour administered over the waking day (e.g., 16 hours). EXTRA DOSE: An extra dose may be administered upon starting in the morning, when restarting the continuous dosage after a break of 1 hour or longer, or as a supplement to the continuous dosage to manage acute "off" symptoms that are not controlled. The first extra dose should be 0.5 mg. Subsequent extra doses may be titrated in increments of 0.1 to 1 mg based on clinical response and tolerability. Max extra dose: 2 mg/dose. Administer no more than 3 extra doses/day over 16 hours, with at least 3 hours between extra doses. If 3 extra doses are routinely required during daily infusion, consider adjusting the continuous infusion dose. Max total daily dose: 98 mg during the waking day (e.g., 16 hours).


For use in the differential diagnosis of idiopathic parkinsonism† and as a diagnostic test for dopaminergic responsiveness in parkinsonian syndromes† to determine whether a patient will respond or is still responsive to levodopa therapy

Subcutaneous dosage
Adults


0.1 mL (1 mg) subcutaneously initially. If a positive response is not obtained, give a 0.2 mL (2 mg) subcutaneous dose at least 30 minutes after the initial dose. Then, if no response, give 0.4 mL (4 mg) subcutaneously at least 30 minutes after the second dose. Still, if no response, give 0.5 mL (5 mg) subcutaneously at least 30 minutes after the third dose. Increase dose until a positive response is recorded (up to 1 mL or 10 mg) with at least 30 minutes between each increase in dose. NOTE: Doses greater than 0.6 mL (6 mg) subcutaneously may pose a greater risk of QTc interval prolongation.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Sodium metabisulfite is present in both the injectable and sublingual products and should not be used by patients with sulfite hypersensitivity. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in patients with asthma than in nonasthmatic patients. Apomorphine is a morphine derivative and should also be used with caution in those with a history of opiate agonist hypersensitivity.

activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, sleep disorder


Somnolence (drowsiness) is commonly associated with apomorphine. Advise apomorphine recipients to use caution when driving or operating machinery or completing other activities requiring coordination and concentration until they are aware of the effects of the medication on their cognition. Ethanol ingestion should be avoided due to the additive effects on cognition and blood pressure. There are reports of sudden sleep onset without prior warning of sleepiness while engaged in activities of daily living in apomorphine recipients. Continually reassess individuals receiving apomorphine for drowsiness or sleepiness, especially since some of the events occur well after the start of treatment. Prescribers should be aware that patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities. Before initiating treatment with apomorphine, inform individuals of the risk of drowsiness and risk factors for somnolence, such as coadministration with other CNS depressants and the presence of a sleep disorder (e.g., narcolepsy, sleep apnea). If a patient develops significant daytime sleepiness or falls asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.), apomorphine should generally be discontinued. If apomorphine is continued, advise these patients not to drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities. There is insufficient information to determine whether dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living.


psychotic disorder


Apomorphine should generally be avoided in patients with a major psychotic disorder, such as those with a history of psychosis or schizophrenia, due to the risk of exacerbating psychosis. In clinical studies, hallucinations were reported in clinical trials of both subcutaneous and sublingual apomorphine. Postmarketing reports indicate that patients may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes, which may be severe, including psychotic-like behavior after starting or increasing the dose of apomorphine. Other drugs prescribed to improve the symptoms of Parkinson disease can have similar effects on thinking and behavior. This abnormal thinking and behavior can consist of one or more manifestations, including paranoid ideation, delusions, hallucinations, confusion, disorientation, aggressive behavior, agitation, and delirium.


hypotension


Use apomorphine with caution in patients with pre-existing hypotension. Dopamine agonists, including apomorphine, may cause orthostatic hypotension at any time, but especially during dose escalation. Patients with PD may also have an impaired capacity to respond to an orthostatic challenge and have impaired mobility, which can lead to falls. Syncope has been reported. For these reasons, PD patients being treated with dopaminergic agonists should be monitored for signs and symptoms of orthostatic hypotension, especially during dose escalation, and should be informed of this risk. A test dose is required prior to prescribing apomorphine injections; patients who develop clinically significant orthostatic hypotension in response to this test dose should not be considered candidates for apomorphine subcutaneous injections. The hypotensive effect of apomorphine is exacerbated by the concomitant use of alcohol or nitrate/nitrite therapy, and other vasodilators and antihypertensive agents may also increase the hypotensive effects.


dyskinesia


Apomorphine may cause dyskinesia or exacerbate pre-existing dyskinesia. In clinical studies, rates of dyskinesia were highest with the use of subcutaneous formulations of apomorphine; however, the potential for dyskinesia with sublingual apomorphine cannot be excluded.


bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation


Use apomorphine with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk.


Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Apomorphine should be used cautiously and with close monitoring in those with mild (Child-Pugh class A) to moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment because of the increased systemic exposure of apomorphine in these patients. Due to the potential for increased exposure, sublingual apomorphine should be titrated under medical supervision in people with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Sublingual apomorphine should be avoided in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. Although specific guidelines are not available for subcutaneous apomorphine, a dosage reduction may be warranted in those with mild to moderate hepatic impairment; the effects of subcutaneous apomorphine have not been evaluated in people with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure.


renal failure, renal impairment


Because of the potential for increased exposure, sublingual apomorphine should be titrated under medical supervision in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. Sublingual apomorphine should be avoided in severe renal impairment. The starting dose of subcutaneous apomorphine injections should be reduced in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment and initial extra doses of the subcutaneous infusion should be limited because the concentration and exposure are increased in these patients. Studies of subcutaneous apomorphine in severe renal impairment or renal failure have not been conducted.


substance abuse disorder


Caution is advised when prescribing apomorphine to patients with a history of a substance abuse disorder. In premarketing clinical experience, apomorphine did not reveal any tendency for drug-seeking behavior. However, there are rare postmarketing reports of abuse of products containing apomorphine. In general, these reports consist of patients taking increasing doses of medication in order to achieve a euphoric state.


geriatric


Geriatric adults may show increased susceptibility to apomorphine; therefore, use apomorphine cautiously in older adults. Dose selections for the geriatric adult should be cautious, starting at the lower end of the dosing range, and titrated slowly to reduce the risk of adverse effects. In clinical trials of subcutaneous apomorphine, adults 65 years of age and older were more likely to experience confusion and hallucinations than younger adults. They were also more likely to develop other complications such as falls, respiratory or cardiac symptoms, and gastrointestinal complaints. Close monitoring for side effects is recommended if apomorphine is required.


pregnancy


There are no adequate data on the developmental risks associated with the use of apomorphine during human pregnancy. Apomorphine has been administered to a limited number of pregnant women prior to undergoing Caesarean section. Infant Apgar scores were similar between the 2 groups and depressant effects were not observed in the apomorphine infant group; however, the women did not receive apomorphine chronically and also received the drug close to obstetric delivery. In animal reproduction studies, apomorphine was associated with adverse developmental effects, an increased incidence of fetal malformations, and maternal toxicity when administered during pregnancy at clinically relevant doses.


breast-feeding


Use apomorphine with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of apomorphine in human milk, the effects of apomorphine on the breastfed infant, or the effects of apomorphine on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breast-feeding should be considered along with the clinical need for apomorphine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the drug or from the underlying condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no adequate data on the developmental risks associated with the use of apomorphine during human pregnancy. Apomorphine has been administered to a limited number of pregnant women prior to undergoing Caesarean section. Infant Apgar scores were similar between the 2 groups and depressant effects were not observed in the apomorphine infant group; however, the women did not receive apomorphine chronically and also received the drug close to obstetric delivery. In animal reproduction studies, apomorphine was associated with adverse developmental effects, an increased incidence of fetal malformations, and maternal toxicity when administered during pregnancy at clinically relevant doses.


Interactions

Acebutolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and diphenhydramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and doxylamine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and diphenhydramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with entacapone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
ALFentanil: (Major) Apomorphine may cause additive sedation or hypotension with alfentanil. Monitor patients receiving alfentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and alfuzosin together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Alfuzosin may prolong the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner.
Aliskiren: (Moderate) Use of aliskiren and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of aliskiren and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Use of potassium-sparing diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of potassium-sparing diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Use apomorphine and amisulpride together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation when amisulpride is administered with apomorphine. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with apomorphine when possible. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Anagrelide: (Major) Use apomorphine and anagrelide together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported during postmarketing use of anagrelide. A cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and aripiprazole with caution due to a risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Apomorphine and aripiprazole may decrease the effectiveness of each other due to opposing effects on dopamine. Additive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. QT prolongation has occurred during therapeutic use of aripiprazole and following overdose. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concurrent use of arsenic trioxide and apomorphine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If possible, apomorphine should be discontinued prior to initiating arsenic trioxide therapy. QT prolongation should be expected with the administration of arsenic trioxide. TdP and complete atrioventricular block have been reported. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concurrent use of apomorphine and artemether; lumefantrine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider ECG monitoring if apomorphine must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment. Administration of artemether; lumefantrine is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Asenapine: (Major) Avoid use of apomorphine and asenapine together if possible due to a risk for additive QT prolongation and sedation. Also, apomorphine and asenapine can reduce the effectiveness of each other through opposing effects on dopamine. Addtive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Asenapine has been associated with QT prolongation. According to the manufacturer of asenapine, the drug should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to cause QT prolongation, such as apomorphine. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent if coadministration cannot be avoided.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of atomoxetine and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Azithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of azithromycin with apomorphine due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been spontaneously reported during azithromycin postmarketing surveillance. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Baclofen: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Use apomorphine and bedaquiline together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Bedaquiline has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Prior to initiating bedaquiline, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Belladonna; Opium: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Beta-adrenergic blockers: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, brexpiprazole and apomorphine may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Additive CNS depressant effects are also possible. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and brompheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and brompheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and brompheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and brompheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and brompheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Use of loop diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Use apomorphine and buprenorphine together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and CNS depression. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). The FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval, such as apomorphine. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Use apomorphine and buprenorphine together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation and CNS depression. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Buprenorphine has been associated with QT prolongation and has a possible risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). The FDA-approved labeling for some buprenorphine products recommend avoiding use with any drug that has the potential to prolong the QT interval, such as apomorphine. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with rilpivirine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Candesartan: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and apomorphine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Captopril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and carbinoxamine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, cariprazine and apomorphine may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Additive CNS depressant effects are also possible. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and apomorphine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as apomorphine, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Central-acting adrenergic agents: (Moderate) Use of central-acting adrenergic agents and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ceritinib with apomorphine if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of ceritinib therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Ceritinib causes concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with apomorphine should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with apomorphine should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and dexchlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorcyclizine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects. (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with apomorphine due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes; the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with entacapone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and chlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Avoid use of apomorphine with chlorpromazine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Also, the effectiveness of either agent may be decreased due to opposing effects on dopamine; consider if an atypical antipsychotic would be a suitable alternative to chlorpromazine. Additive CNS depression is also possible. Chlorpromazine is specifically associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and TdP at therapeutic doses. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Chlorzoxazone: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Because of the potential for torsade de pointes (TdP), apomorphine use is contraindicated with cisapride. Cisapride has a known risk for QT prolongation and is contraindicated for use with other drugs that may cause QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of apomorphine and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with apomorphine when possible. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and clemastine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Use of central-acting adrenergic agents and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Coadministration of apomorphine and clozapine may increase the risk for QT prolongation or sedation. Apomorphine and clozapine may decrease the effectiveness of each other due to opposing effects on dopamine. Additive CNS effects are also possible. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent if coadministration cannot be avoided.
Codeine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Use promethazine with apomorphine with caution; avoid use if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Promethazine and apomorphine may reduce the effectiveness of each other through opposing effects on dopamine. Apomorphine causes considerable somnolence, and concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants like promethazine could result in additive CNS effects. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Promethazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Use promethazine with apomorphine with caution; avoid use if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Promethazine and apomorphine may reduce the effectiveness of each other through opposing effects on dopamine. Apomorphine causes considerable somnolence, and concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants like promethazine could result in additive CNS effects. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Promethazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with apomorphine due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib patients if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Moderate) Monitor for additive CNS effects if apomorphine is used concurrently with tricyclic antidepressants. Apomorphine causes considerable somnolence, and concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS agents like cyclobenzaprine could result in additive CNS effects.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and cyproheptadine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Dantrolene: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and dasatinib together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong the QT interval.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients receiving apomorphine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Desflurane: (Major) Use apomorphine and halogenated anesthetics together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. In addition, concomitant administration of apomorphine and halogenated anesthetics could also result in additive depressant effects.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and deutetrabenazine together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. Also, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of apomorphine and deutetrabenazine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and dexchlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and dexchlorpheniramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and diphenhydramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Use apomorphine and quinidine together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Concurrent use of apomorphine and vasodilators can cause greater decreases in blood pressure than use of apomorphine alone. Patients receiving a combination of apomorphine and vasodilators should be closely monitored for hypotension and orthostasis.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and dimenhydrinate could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and diphenhydramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and diphenhydramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and diphenhydramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and diphenhydramine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Disopyramide: (Major) Use apomorphine and disopyramide together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and apomorphine is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with rilpivirine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and donepezil together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and donepezil together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) Use of doxazosin and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and doxylamine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and doxylamine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants, such as dronabinol, could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use of a CNS depressant and apomorphine. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of dronedarone with other drugs that prolong the QTc may induce torsade de pointes (TdP) and is contraindicated. Dronedarone is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Although there are no studies examining the effects of dronedarone in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
droPERidol: (Major) Any drug known to have potential to prolong the QT interval should not be coadministered with droperidol. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with apomorphine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with apomorphine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Consider alternatives to efavirenz when coadministering with apomorphine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of efavirenz. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with eliglustat since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with rilpivirine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with rilpivirine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of encorafenib and apomorphine due to a possible increased risk of QT prolongation. If concurrent use cannot be avoided, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia prior to treatment. Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with apomorphine due to the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Eplerenone: (Moderate) Use of eplerenone and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
eriBULin: (Major) Use apomorphine and eribulin together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Eribulin has been associated with QT prolongation. ECG monitoring is recommended if eribulin is administered with apomorphine.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of apomorphine and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of escitalopram and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Esketamine: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as apomorphine, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Use of loop diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol-containing beverages during apomorphine therapy. Concurrent use of alcohol and apomorphine has resulted in significantly worse orthostatic hypotension compared to apomorphine alone. Coadministration of low dose ethanol (0.3 grams/kg) with subcutaneous apomorphine in healthy subjects did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of apomorphine; however, high dose alcohol (0.6 grams/kg), equivalent to about 3 standardized alcohol-containing beverages, increased the maximum concentration of apomorphine by about 63%. A similar study with sublingual apomorphine has not been conducted.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and apomorphine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as apomorphine, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Concurrent use of apomorphine and vasodilators can cause greater decreases in blood pressure than use of apomorphine alone. Patients receiving a combination of apomorphine and vasodilators should be closely monitored for hypotension and orthostasis.
fentaNYL: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with fingolimod since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Fingolimod may cause a decreased heart rate and prolong the QT interval. Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Flecainide: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering flecainide with apomorphine. Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP; flecainide increases the QT interval, but largely due to prolongation of the QRS interval. Although causality for TdP has not been established for flecainide, patients receiving concurrent drugs which have the potential for QT prolongation may have an increased risk of developing proarrhythmias. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluconazole and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Use fluphenazine with apomorphine with caution; avoid use if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Also, the effectiveness of either agent may be decreased due to opposing effects on dopamine; consider if an atypical antipsychotic would be a suitable alternative to fluphenazine. Additive CNS depression is also possible. Limited data indicate that QT prolongation is possible with fluphenazine administration. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with fluvoxamine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as apomorphine. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and fostemsavir together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, 4 times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Use of loop diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and apomorphine. Concomitant use of gabapentin with apomorphine may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as apomorphine, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with gemifloxacin sincce concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Use gemtuzumab ozogamicin and apomorphine together with caution due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes. If these agents are used together, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of gemtuzumab and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if concurrent use of gilteritinib and apomorphine is necessary since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Gilteritinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with apomorphine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of QT prolongation with increased frequency of ECG monitoring. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving apomorphine. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Granisetron: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of apomorphine and serotonin-receptor antagonists is contraindicated due to the possibility of an excessive lowering of blood pressure and unconsciousness. Additionally, additive QT prolongation is possible during coadministration of apomorphine with dolasetron, granisetron, and ondansetron.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Use of central-acting adrenergic agents and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Use apomorphine and halogenated anesthetics together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. In addition, concomitant administration of apomorphine and halogenated anesthetics could also result in additive depressant effects.
Haloperidol: (Major) Avoid use of haloperidol with apomorphine when possible. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression and QT prolongation. The effectiveness of either agent may be decreased due to opposing effects on dopamine; consider if an atypical antipsychotic would be a suitable alternative to haloperidol. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent if coadministration cannot be avoided.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving apomorphine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with entacapone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Concurrent use of apomorphine and vasodilators can cause greater decreases in blood pressure than use of apomorphine alone. Patients receiving a combination of apomorphine and vasodilators should be closely monitored for hypotension and orthostasis.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Major) Coadministration of apomorphine and nitrates can cause large decreases in blood pressure. The effect is especially of concern with use of sublingual nitroglycerin products. Instruct patients to lie down before taking a sublingual nitroglycerin dose and to remain supine for at least 45 minutes after to reduce orthostatic risk. In one evaluation, the largest mean decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin were 14.3 mmHg and 13.5 mmHg, respectively. The largest recorded decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures were 65 mmHg and 43 mmHg during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin together. (Moderate) Concurrent use of apomorphine and vasodilators can cause greater decreases in blood pressure than use of apomorphine alone. Patients receiving a combination of apomorphine and vasodilators should be closely monitored for hypotension and orthostasis.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
HYDROcodone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with entacapone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Avoid prescribing opioid cough medications in patients taking apomorphine. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with entacapone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
HYDROmorphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apomorphine and hydroxychloroquine due to the risk of increased QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Caution is recommended if hydroxyzine is administered with apomorphine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). In addition, because hydroxyzine causes pronounced sedation, an enhanced CNS depressant effect may occur when it is combined with other CNS depressants including apomorphine. Postmarketing data indicate that hydroxyzine causes QT prolongation and TdP. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Ibutilide: (Major) Use apomorphine and ibutilide together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Iloperidone: (Major) Avoid use of apomorphine and iloperidone together if possible due to an additive risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Apomorphine and iloperidone may decrease the effectiveness of each other due to opposing effects on dopamine. Additive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Iloperidone has also been associated with QT prolongation. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent if coadministration cannot be avoided.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Use of indapamide and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with apomorphine due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Isoflurane: (Major) Use apomorphine and halogenated anesthetics together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. In addition, concomitant administration of apomorphine and halogenated anesthetics could also result in additive depressant effects.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Major) Coadministration of apomorphine and nitrates can cause large decreases in blood pressure. The effect is especially of concern with use of sublingual nitroglycerin products. Instruct patients to lie down before taking a sublingual nitroglycerin dose and to remain supine for at least 45 minutes after to reduce orthostatic risk. In one evaluation, the largest mean decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin were 14.3 mmHg and 13.5 mmHg, respectively. The largest recorded decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures were 65 mmHg and 43 mmHg during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin together.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Major) Coadministration of apomorphine and nitrates can cause large decreases in blood pressure. The effect is especially of concern with use of sublingual nitroglycerin products. Instruct patients to lie down before taking a sublingual nitroglycerin dose and to remain supine for at least 45 minutes after to reduce orthostatic risk. In one evaluation, the largest mean decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin were 14.3 mmHg and 13.5 mmHg, respectively. The largest recorded decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures were 65 mmHg and 43 mmHg during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin together.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with itraconazole since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Itraconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with apomorphine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and apomorphine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with apomorphine when possible. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for evidence of QT prolongation if lapatinib is administered with apomorphine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and apomorphine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as apomorphine, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with apomorphine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and apomorphine. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and apomorphine may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with apomorphine due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving apomorphine. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with apomorphine should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of levofloxacin and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and apomorphine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Levorphanol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Reduce the initial dose of levorphanol by approximately 50% or more. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Lithium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lofexidine: (Major) Monitor the ECG if lofexidine is coadministered with apomorphine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Additionally, both drugs are associated with orthostatic hypotension and sedation and careful monitoring for these adverse effects is recommended. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval, and torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported during postmarketing use. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Use of loop diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of loperamide and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir; ritonavir with apomorphine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Lopinavir is associated with QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Losartan: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Loxapine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, loxapine and dopamine agonists may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to loxapine, if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, lumateperone and apomorphine may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Additive CNS depressant effects are also possible. In general, atypical antipsychotics, such as lumateperone, are less likely to interfere with apomorphine than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, lurasidone and apomorphine may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Additive CNS depressant effects are also possible. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as apomorphine. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the QTc interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mecamylamine: (Moderate) Patients receiving apomorphine may experience orthostatic hypotension, hypotension, and/or syncope. Extreme caution should be exercised if apomorphine is used concurrently with antihypertensive agents, or vasodilators such as nitrates.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and meclizine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with mefloquine due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Meperidine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Methadone: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering methadone with apomorphine. The need to coadminister these drugs should be done with extreme caution and a careful assessment of treatment risks versus benefits. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Methadone is associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and TdP, especially at higher doses (greater than 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction. Additionally, apomorphine and methadone can cause significant somnolence which may be additive. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Methocarbamol: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Methyldopa: (Moderate) Use of central-acting adrenergic agents and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Metoclopramide: (Moderate) Agents with dopamine antagonist properties, like metoclopramide, may decrease the effectiveness of dopamine agonists. These agents can cause abrupt and severe worsening of Parkinson's disease or restless leg syndrome (RLS) symptoms. Metoclopramide should be avoided, if possible, in patients treated with dopamine agonists for Parkinson's disease. If not avoidable, monitor for reduced efficacy of the dopamine agonist. Additive somnolence may also be possible.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Midostaurin: (Major) The concomitant use of midostaurin and apomorphine may lead to additive QT interval prolongation. If these drugs are used together, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of apomorphine and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Concurrent use of apomorphine and vasodilators can cause greater decreases in blood pressure than use of apomorphine alone. Patients receiving a combination of apomorphine and vasodilators should be closely monitored for hypotension and orthostasis.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with mirtazapine as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation and CNS depression. Mirtazapine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported postmarketing, primarily in overdose or in patients with other risk factors for QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation may also occur.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Molindone: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, molindone and dopamine agonists may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to molindone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Morphine: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concurrent use of apomorphine and moxifloxacin should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Moxifloxacin has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Additionally, postmarketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including TdP, usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants, including nefazodone, could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use of a CNS depressant and apomorphine. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of apomorphine and serotonin-receptor antagonists is contraindicated due to the possibility of an excessive lowering of blood pressure and unconsciousness. Additionally, additive QT prolongation is possible during coadministration of apomorphine with dolasetron, granisetron, and ondansetron.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and other drugs with a known potential to prolong the QT interval such as apomorphine; significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. Sudden death and QT interval prolongation have been reported in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Nitrates: (Major) Coadministration of apomorphine and nitrates can cause large decreases in blood pressure. The effect is especially of concern with use of sublingual nitroglycerin products. Instruct patients to lie down before taking a sublingual nitroglycerin dose and to remain supine for at least 45 minutes after to reduce orthostatic risk. In one evaluation, the largest mean decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin were 14.3 mmHg and 13.5 mmHg, respectively. The largest recorded decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures were 65 mmHg and 43 mmHg during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin together.
Nitroglycerin: (Major) Coadministration of apomorphine and nitrates can cause large decreases in blood pressure. The effect is especially of concern with use of sublingual nitroglycerin products. Instruct patients to lie down before taking a sublingual nitroglycerin dose and to remain supine for at least 45 minutes after to reduce orthostatic risk. In one evaluation, the largest mean decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin were 14.3 mmHg and 13.5 mmHg, respectively. The largest recorded decreases in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures were 65 mmHg and 43 mmHg during use of apomorphine and sublingual nitroglycerin together.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Concurrent use of apomorphine and vasodilators can cause greater decreases in blood pressure than use of apomorphine alone. Patients receiving a combination of apomorphine and vasodilators should be closely monitored for hypotension and orthostasis.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of ofloxacin and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Coadministration of apomorphine and olanzapine may increase the risk for QT prolongation or sedation. Apomorphine and olanzapine may decrease the effectiveness of each other due to opposing effects on dopamine. Additive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Coadministration of apomorphine and olanzapine may increase the risk for QT prolongation or sedation. Apomorphine and olanzapine may decrease the effectiveness of each other due to opposing effects on dopamine. Additive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration. (Moderate) Concomitant use of fluoxetine and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Coadministration of apomorphine and olanzapine may increase the risk for QT prolongation or sedation. Apomorphine and olanzapine may decrease the effectiveness of each other due to opposing effects on dopamine. Additive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration.
Oliceridine: (Major) Concomitant use of oliceridine with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Ondansetron: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of apomorphine and serotonin-receptor antagonists is contraindicated due to the possibility of an excessive lowering of blood pressure and unconsciousness. Additionally, additive QT prolongation is possible during coadministration of apomorphine with dolasetron, granisetron, and ondansetron.
Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Monitor ECGs in patients receiving osilodrostat with apomorphine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apomorphine with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, periodically monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy with dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Monitor ECGs and electrolytes in patients receiving oxaliplatin and apomorphine concomitantly; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to administration of oxaliplatin. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
oxyCODONE: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
oxyMORphone: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with entacapone to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Reduce the initial oxymorphone dosage by 1/3 to 1/2. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking apomorphine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Coadministration of apomorphine and paliperidone may increase the risk for QT prolongation or sedation. Apomorphine and paliperidone may decrease the effectiveness of each other due to opposing effects on dopamine. Additive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration.
Palonosetron: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of apomorphine and serotonin-receptor antagonists is contraindicated due to the possibility of an excessive lowering of blood pressure and unconsciousness. Additionally, additive QT prolongation is possible during coadministration of apomorphine with dolasetron, granisetron, and ondansetron.
Panobinostat: (Major) QT prolongation has been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial; use of panobinostat with other agents that prolong the QT interval is not recommended. Obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to 480 milliseconds or more during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and pasireotide together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. QT prolongation has occurred with pasireotide at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concurrent use of pazopanib and apomorphine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If these drugs must be continued, closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Pazopanib has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Pentamidine: (Major) Use apomorphine and pentamidine together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Systemic pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Perphenazine: (Major) Use perphenazine with apomorphine with caution; avoid use if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Also, the effectiveness of either agent may be decreased due to opposing effects on dopamine; consider if an atypical antipsychotic would be a suitable alternative to perphenazine. Additive CNS depression is also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Use perphenazine with apomorphine with caution; avoid use if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Also, the effectiveness of either agent may be decreased due to opposing effects on dopamine; consider if an atypical antipsychotic would be a suitable alternative to perphenazine. Additive CNS depression is also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Perphenazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) Use of phenoxybenzamine and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) Use of phentolamine and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as apomorphine. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because of the potential for TdP, use of apomorphine with pimozide is contraindicated. Apomorphine is also associated with QT prolongation. In addition, the use of pimozide may counteract the effectiveness of apomorphine due to its dopamine antagonist actions. Both agents also cause sedation.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pitolisant with apomorphine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Pitolisant prolongs the QT interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking apomorphine due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with posaconazole since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Posaconazole has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval as well as rare cases of torsade de pointes. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) Use of potassium-sparing diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Pramipexole: (Moderate) Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants, such as pramipexole, could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use of pramipexolet and apomorphine. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Prazosin: (Moderate) Use of prazosin and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and apomorphine. Concomitant use of pregabalin with apomorphine may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as apomorphine, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Primidone: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Procainamide: (Major) Use apomorphine and procainamide together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Use prochlorperazine with apomorphine with caution; avoid use if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Also, the effectiveness of either agent may be decreased due to opposing effects on dopamine; consider if an atypical antipsychotic would be a suitable alternative to prochlorperazine. Additive CNS depression is also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Many phenothiazine drugs are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Use promethazine with apomorphine with caution; avoid use if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Promethazine and apomorphine may reduce the effectiveness of each other through opposing effects on dopamine. Apomorphine causes considerable somnolence, and concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants like promethazine could result in additive CNS effects. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Promethazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Use promethazine with apomorphine with caution; avoid use if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Promethazine and apomorphine may reduce the effectiveness of each other through opposing effects on dopamine. Apomorphine causes considerable somnolence, and concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants like promethazine could result in additive CNS effects. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Promethazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Use promethazine with apomorphine with caution; avoid use if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Promethazine and apomorphine may reduce the effectiveness of each other through opposing effects on dopamine. Apomorphine causes considerable somnolence, and concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants like promethazine could result in additive CNS effects. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Promethazine is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propofol: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and carbinoxamine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Avoid use of quetiapine and apomorphine if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Also, quetiapine and apomorphine may reduce the effectiveness of each other through opposing effects on dopamine. Additive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that quetiapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent if coadministration cannot be avoided.
Quinapril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
quiNIDine: (Major) Use apomorphine and quinidine together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes.
quiNINE: (Major) Concurrent use of quinine and apomorphine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Quinine has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and rare cases of TdP. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with ranolazine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and relugolix together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and relugolix together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Remifentanil: (Major) Apomorphine may cause additive sedation or hypotension with remifentanil. Monitor patients receiving remifentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with apomorphine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with apomorphine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation. Ribociclib has been shown to prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with rilpivirine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Use risperidone and apomorphine together with caution due to a potential for additive QT prolongation and sedation. Also, risperidone and apomorphine may reduce the effectiveness of each other due to opposing effects on dopamine. Additive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or TdP, primarily in the overdose setting. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent during coadministration.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and romidepsin together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Consider monitoring electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment if romidepsin is administered with apomorphine. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval.
rOPINIRole: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants, such as ropinirole, could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use of a CNS depressant and apomorphine. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Saquinavir: (Major) Concurrent use of saquinavir and apomorphine should be avoided due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as TdP. If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration of selpercatinib with apomorphine is necessary due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Increased dopaminergic effects may occur during coadministration of methylphenidate derivatives, inhibitors of dopamine reuptake, and dopamine agonists such as pergolide, pramipexole, apomorphine, and ropinirole. Dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea, loss of appetite, weight loss, insomnia, tremor, nervousness, or changes in mood or behavior, are possible.
Serotonin-Receptor Antagonists: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of apomorphine and serotonin-receptor antagonists is contraindicated due to the possibility of an excessive lowering of blood pressure and unconsciousness. Additionally, additive QT prolongation is possible during coadministration of apomorphine with dolasetron, granisetron, and ondansetron.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of sertraline and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Use apomorphine and halogenated anesthetics together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Halogenated anesthetics can prolong the QT interval. In addition, concomitant administration of apomorphine and halogenated anesthetics could also result in additive depressant effects.
Siponimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate treatment with siponimod in patients receiving apomorphine due to the potential for QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Apomorphine and solifenacin should be coadministered cautiously and with close monitoring since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Solifenacin has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported with postmarketing use, although causality has not been established.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor for dopamine-mediated effects including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, tremor, and changes in moods or behaviors if solriamfetol, a central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is administered with other dopaminergic drugs, such as apomorphine. Caution is recommended since this combination has not been evaluated.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with apomorphine due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor electrocardiograms and correct electrolyte abnormalities. An interruption or discontinuation of sorafenib therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Sorafenib is also associated with QTc prolongation.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Use of potassium-sparing diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of potassium-sparing diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and apomorphine. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Major) Apomorphine may cause additive sedation or hypotension with sufentanil. Monitor patients receiving sufentanil with other CNS depressants for hypotension and prolonged respiratory depression and sedation. In such cases of combined treatment, a dose reduction of one or both agents may be necessary.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and sunitinib together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Sunitinib can prolong the QT interval.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Consider ECG and electrolyte monitoring periodically during treatment if tacrolimus is administered with apomorphine. Tacrolimus may prolong the QT interval and cause torsade de pointes. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tapentadol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with telavancin since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Telavancin has been associated with QT prolongation.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of indapamide and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Terazosin: (Moderate) Use of terazosin and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Exercise caution when using apomorphine with tetrabenazine due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and CNS depression. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc) and is associated with a possible risk for torsade de pointes (TdP). Sedation is the most common dose-limiting adverse reaction of tetrabenazine, and apomorphine also causes significant somnolence.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine is considered contraindicated for use along with apomorphine which, when combined with thioridazine, may prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of torsade de pointes (TdP), and/or cause orthostatic hypotension. Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and TdP. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. In addition, thioridazine and apomorphine may reduce the effects of each other through opposing effects on dopamine.
Thiothixene: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, thiothixene and dopamine agonists may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic instead of thiothixene, if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Timolol: (Moderate) Use of beta blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with tolterodine since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apomorphine with toremifene if possible due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to administration of toremifene.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Use of loop diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with apomorphine may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with apomorphine to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents like apomorphine have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
traZODone: (Major) Apomorphine should be avoided in combination with trazodone due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and sedation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Trazodone can prolong the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP). Apomorphine also causes considerable somnolence, and concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants like trazodone could result in additive CNS effects.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Use of potassium-sparing diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of potassium-sparing diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and benzodiazepines could result in additive depressant effects.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Use trifluoperazine with apomorphine with caution; avoid use if possible due to an increased risk for QT prolongation and sedation. Also, the effectiveness of either agent may be decreased due to opposing effects on dopamine; consider if an atypical antipsychotic would be a suitable alternative to trifluoperazine. Additive CNS depression is also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Many phenothiazine antipsychotics are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation.
Trimethobenzamide: (Moderate) Because apomorphine may cause somnolence or dizziness, monitor for additive sedation or dizziness when trimethobenzamide or other sedating anti-emetics are used with apomorphine.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Use apomorphine and tricyclic antidepressants together with caution due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Tricyclic antidepressants have been associated with QT prolongation, primarily in overdosage or when excessive plasma concentrations are encountered. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Additive sedation is also possible during combined use of these agents.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and carbinoxamine could result in additive depressant effects. Careful monitoring is recommended during combined use. A dose reduction of one or both drugs may be warranted.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) outweigh the potential risks of QT prolongation in patients receiving apomorphine. Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT/QTc interval. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Valsartan: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination. (Moderate) Use of thiazide diuretics and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with apomorphine due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of vardenafil and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Concurrent use of apomorphine and vasodilators can cause greater decreases in blood pressure than use of apomorphine alone. Patients receiving a combination of apomorphine and vasodilators should be closely monitored for hypotension and orthostasis.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Due to the potential for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP), caution is advised when administering vemurafenib with apomorphine. If these drugs must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation. Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Use of calcium-channel blockers and apomorphine together can increase the hypotensive effects of apomorphine. Monitor blood pressure regularly during use of this combination.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of voclosporin and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Consider interventions to minimize the risk of progression to torsades de pointes (TdP), such as ECG monitoring and correcting electrolyte abnormalities, particularly in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of clarithromycin with apomorphine when possible. Clarithromycin is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with voriconazole since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Voriconazole has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Exercise caution when administering apomorphine concomitantly with vorinostat since concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Vorinostat therapy is associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Avoid use of apomorphine and ziprasidone together if possible due to a risk for additive QT prolongation and sedation. Also, apomorphine and ziprasidone can reduce the effectiveness of each other through opposing effects on dopamine. Addtive CNS effects are also possible. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with Parkinson's disease treatments than traditional antipsychotics. Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, sedation, fast, irregular heartbeat, and diminished effectiveness of either agent if coadministration cannot be avoided.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Apomorphine causes significant somnolence. Concomitant administration of apomorphine and CNS depressants could result in additive depressant effects. A reduction in the dose of one or both drugs should be considered to minimize additive sedative effects. In addition, the risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased during co-administration of eszopiclone and other CNS depressants, which may decrease the ability to perform tasks requiring full mental alertness such as driving.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.


Adverse Reaction
drowsiness, headache, insomnia, sudden sleep onset


Apomorphine may cause drowsiness; drowsiness or somnolence was reported in 35% of patients receiving subcutaneous apomorphine injections in one small controlled clinical trial. Other CNS effects reported in at least 5% of patients during premarketing evaluation of subcutaneous apomorphine infections included insomnia and headache. In clinical trials of subcutaneous apomorphine infusions, somnolence (22%), headache (13%), and insomnia (11%) were reported. During a premarketing maintenance study of sublingual apomorphine, the following centrally-mediated effects occurred in at least 5% of apomorphine-treated patients and more frequently than with placebo: somnolence (13%) and headache (6%). There have been reports of apomorphine recipients who have fallen asleep while performing activities of daily living. It is possible for episodes of excessive drowsiness to occur well after the start of treatment. Sudden sleep onset with other dopamine agonists has, in some cases, resulted in auto accidents or other harmful events in the course of daily living. Symptoms of excessive drowsiness may not be preceded by warning signs. Apomorphine recipients who have experienced a sudden episode of sleep should generally discontinue apomorphine. Reassess for oversedation throughout apomorphine therapy. The use of concomitant CNS depressant medications or sleep disorders may increase the risk of falling asleep while receiving apomorphine. It is not known if a reduction in dosage will subsequently reduce or eliminate excessive somnolence or sudden sleep onset.


dyspnea, infection, rhinorrhea, yawning


During a small clinical trial (n = 29) of subjects with Parkinson disease receiving subcutaneous apomorphine 2 to 10 mg or placebo, the following respiratory effects were reported more frequently with apomorphine than placebo: yawning (40%) and rhinorrhea (20%). During a premarketing maintenance study of sublingual apomorphine, rhinorrhea (7%) was reported in apomorphine-treated patients. Respiratory effects or infections reported in at least 5% of patients receiving subcutaneous apomorphine during premarketing evaluation included urinary tract infection, pneumonia, and dyspnea.


nausea, vomiting


Apomorphine causes severe nausea and vomiting at recommended doses due to stimulation in the chemoreceptor trigger zone. Nausea and vomiting are extremely likely when apomorphine is not given with an antiemetic and usually occurs within 5 to 10 minutes of a parenteral dose. Almost all patients (98%) during clinical trials with subcutaneous apomorphine were pre-medicated with trimethobenzamide (an antiemetic), beginning 3 days prior to study enrollment and continued for at least 6 weeks. Trimethobenzamide was discontinued by 50% of study subjects while continuing apomorphine, with an average time to discontinuation of about 2 months (range: 1 day to 33 months). During clinical trials of subcutaneous apomorphine injections along with antiemetic therapy, the incidence of nausea and/or vomiting was 31% and 11%, respectively. Similarly, in clinical trials of subcutaneous apomorphine infusions, nausea (22%) and vomiting (7%) were among the most commonly reported adverse reactions and were a reason for discontinuation. During premarketing studies of sublingual apomorphine, nausea or vomiting occurred in 28% and 7%, respectively, of apomorphine recipients. An open-label safety study of sublingual apomorphine reported nausea and vomiting as adverse reactions affecting 13% and 1% of patients, respectively. In some cases, nausea may be associated with the orthostasis caused by the drug. The effect of trimethobenzamide on reducing nausea/vomiting during treatment with subcutaneous apomorphine was evaluated in a 12-week controlled trial in 194 patients; fewer patients experienced nausea and vomiting during the first 4 weeks of subcutaneous apomorphine treatment while receiving trimethobenzamide versus placebo (43% vs. 59%). However, patients treated with trimethobenzamide had a greater incidence of side effects than those receiving placebo including somnolence (19% vs. 12%), dizziness (14% vs. 8%), and falls (8% vs. 1%). The benefit of trimethobenzamide must be balanced against the risk of adverse events, and generally should not be used for more than 2 months.


angina, cardiac arrest, chest pain (unspecified), dizziness, flushing, heart failure, hypotension, myocardial infarction, orthostatic hypotension, pallor, palpitations, QT prolongation, syncope, torsade de pointes


Patients with Parkinson disease (PD) are at risk of falling due to underlying postural instability, possible autonomic instability, and syncope caused by the blood pressure lowering effects of the drugs used to treat PD. Patients with PD may also have an impaired capacity to respond to an orthostatic challenge. Apomorphine can cause dose-related hypotension and has the potential to exacerbate coronary and cerebral ischemia. During the clinical trial evaluation of subcutaneous apomorphine injections, the following adverse cardiac effects were reported in apomorphine-naive patients with Parkinson disease: dizziness or orthostatic hypotension (20%), syncope (2%), angina/chest pain (unspecified) (15%), and heart failure (at least 5%). Many of these cardiac effects were also seen in a clinical trial of subcutaneous apomorphine infusions, with dizziness (9%) and hypotension or orthostatic hypotension (13%) occurring most often. Orthostatic intolerance and hypotension may result in drug discontinuation. Most syncopal episodes are preceded by dizziness, flushing, nausea/vomiting, pallor, and/or sweating. Orthostatic hypotension and syncope may lead to fainting or increase the risk of falls. During clinical trials of subcutaneous apomorphine, falls and serious falls were reported in 30% and 5% of patients, respectively. During premarketing studies of sublingual apomorphine, dizziness (9%), falls (6%), and lacerations (6%) were reported in apomorphine recipients. Cardiac-related events were more common in apomorphine recipients receiving concomitant antihypertensive medications or vasodilators: hypotension (10%) and serious falls (9%). In patients undergoing subcutaneous apomorphine injection titration, there was an increased incidence (from 4% pre-dose to 18% post-dose) of systolic orthostatic hypotension (at least a 20 mmHg decrease), and a small number developed severe systolic orthostatic hypotension (at least 30 mmHg decrease and systolic BP 90 mmHg or less). A similar pattern was noted with apomorphine infusions, with increased incidence of systolic orthostatic hypotension (4.5% pre-dose to 44.4% post-dose) and diastolic orthostatic hypotension (4.5% pre-dose to 44.4% post-dose). During the 12-week treatment period, these differences in incidence rates remained similar. During the titration phase of sublingual apomorphine, 4% of patients experienced syncope, pre-syncope, hypotension, and orthostatic hypotension; patients in the maintenance phase had a lower incidence of these effects (2%). In a QT study with subcutaneous apomorphine exposure similar to that achieved with therapeutic doses of the drug, there was a QTcF prolongation of 10 msec (90% upper confidence interval of 16 msec). QT prolongation may occur with either sublingual or subcutaneous apomorphine. QT prolongation was reported during a clinical trial of subcutaneous apomorphine infusions. QT prolongation carries a risk of torsade de pointes. Serious events may be preceded by palpitations and syncope. During clinical trials of subcutaneous apomorphine, 4% of apomorphine recipients experienced myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest and/or sudden death; some cases of unstable angina and myocardial infarction occurred in proximity to apomorphine dosing (within 2 hours), while other cases of cardiac arrest and sudden death were observed at times unrelated to dosing. If patients develop signs and symptoms of coronary or cerebral ischemia, the continued use of apomorphine should be carefully re-evaluated.


contact dermatitis, ecchymosis, injection site reaction, pruritus


Skin contact with the solution or powder of subcutaneous apomorphine may cause an allergic contact dermatitis. A case of eosinophilic panniculitis with scarring was reported in one patient following the initial subcutaneous injection of apomorphine. During premarketing evaluation of subcutaneous apomorphine, ecchymosis occurred in at least 5% of patients. An injection site reaction occurred in 26% of patients; associated symptoms included local bruising or ecchymosis (16%), granuloma (4%), and pruritus (2%). Similarly, infusion site reactions were reported in 63% of apomorphine subcutaneous infusion recipients and led to discontinuation in 2% of patients. The most commonly reported reactions included infusion site nodule formation (44%) and infusion site erythema (17%). Other reported reactions at the infusion site include hematomas, inflammation, pruritus, swelling, discoloration, hemorrhage, hypersensitivity, induration, edema, pain, rash, or bruising. Infusion site infections have also been reported with apomorphine subcutaneous infusions, occurring in 4% of medication recipients. The most common infusion site infection reported was cellulitis. If an infection occurs at the infusion site, the cannula should be removed from the infusion site and a new cannula should be placed at a new site.


agitation, anxiety, confusion, delirium, depression, hallucinations, paranoia, psychosis


During premarketing evaluation of subcutaneous apomorphine injections, hallucinations were reported in 14% of patients. In one small controlled trial, hallucinations or confusion were reported in 10% of patients receiving subcutaneous apomorphine and 0% of patients receiving placebo. Discontinuation of apomorphine due to hallucinations occurred in 1% of patients. Psychiatric effects reported in at least 5% of patients receiving subcutaneous apomorphine during premarketing evaluation included depression and anxiety. In a clinical study of subcutaneous apomorphine infusions, hallucinations and psychotic disorder (psychosis) were reported in apomorphine recipients. Visual hallucinations were a reason for treatment discontinuation in this trial. During premarketing evaluation of sublingual apomorphine, hallucinations, delusions, disorientation, or confusion were reported in 6% of treated patients. Postmarketing reports indicate that new or worsening psychiatric or behavioral effects, some of which may be severe, may occur after starting or increasing the dose of apomorphine. These changes can include paranoia, delusions, hallucinations, confusion, disorientation, aggressive behavior, agitation, and delirium. Other drugs used to treat Parkinson's disease can have similar effects on thinking and behavior.


dyskinesia, gait disturbance


During premarketing evaluation of subcutaneous apomorphine injections, dyskinesias or worsening of dyskinesia occurred in 24% of patients. Discontinuation of apomorphine due to dyskinesias occurred in 2% of patients. In one small controlled trial, dyskinesias were reported in 35% of patients (n = 7) receiving subcutaneous apomorphine versus 11% of those receiving placebo (n = 1). Similarly, dyskinesia (15%) was among the most frequently reported adverse effects in a clinical study of subcutaneous apomorphine infusions. Gait disturbance also occurred and was a reason for discontinuing treatment. Although dyskinesia was not reported during premarketing evaluation of sublingual apomorphine, the potential for dyskinesias cannot be excluded.


impulse control symptoms, libido increase, priapism


Apomorphine may cause prolonged painful erections in some patients, and priapism represents a medical emergency. Painful erections were reported in less than 1% of patients receiving subcutaneous apomorphine in clinical trials. A rarely reported motivation for apomorphine abuse is a psychosexual reaction related to the stimulation of penile erection and libido increase. Adverse events that have been reported in males with overuse of subcutaneous apomorphine include frequent penile erections, atypical sexual behavior, heightened libido, dyskinesias, agitation, confusion, and depression. Some patients receiving dopaminergic medications have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, or other intense urges. Impulse control disorder was reported during premarketing evaluation of both sublingual and subcutaneous infusions of apomorphine. Impulse control symptoms, such as pathological gambling, libido increase, and hypersexuality, have been reported during postmarketing use of apomorphine. In some cases, the urges stopped after the dose was reduced, or the drug was discontinued. Periodically inquire about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving apomorphine and instruct apomorphine recipients to report such changes. Consider dose reduction or discontinuation in treated patients who experience these effects.


constipation, diarrhea, erythema, oral ulceration, paresthesias, stomatitis, xerostomia


Gastrointestinal (GI) effects reported in at least 5% of intermittent subcutaneous apomorphine injection recipients in clinical studies included constipation and diarrhea. In clinical trials of subcutaneous apomorphine infusions, constipation (7%) was reported more often with treatment than with placebo. During a premarketing study of sublingual apomorphine, oral mucosal ulceration and stomatitis were reported in 2% of treated patients during the titration phase. In the maintenance phase, the following effects occurred in at least 5% of apomorphine sublingual recipients and more frequently than with placebo: oral/pharyngeal soft tissue swelling (15%), oral/pharyngeal soft tissue pain and oral paresthesias (13%), oral ulceration and stomatitis (7%), oral mucosal erythema (7%), and xerostomia (6%). In general, oral mucosal irritation was mild to moderate in severity, and usually resolved with treatment discontinuation. However, rechallenge with sublingual apomorphine is not generally recommended after discontinuation due to oral adverse reactions since the reactions may recur and may be more severe than the initial event. 


asthenia, dehydration, edema, fatigue, peripheral edema, weakness


During a clinical trial of subcutaneous apomorphine injections in Parkinson disease patients receiving apomorphine 2 to 10 mg subcutaneously or placebo, edema or peripheral edema occurred in 10% of apomorphine recipients. Other general conditions reported in at least 5% of patients during premarketing evaluation of subcutaneous apomorphine injections included aggravated Parkinson disease, fatigue, weakness, and dehydration. In clinical trials of subcutaneous apomorphine infusions, asthenia (weakness; 7%) and fatigue (7%), were reported more often in medication recipients than with placebo. During a premarketing maintenance study of sublingual apomorphine, fatigue occurred in 7% of treated patients.


arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain


Musculoskeletal adverse events or other pain-related effects reported in at least 5% of patients during premarketing evaluation of subcutaneous apomorphine injections included arthralgia, limb pain (musculoskeletal pain), and back pain.


macular degeneration


Retinal degeneration (macular degeneration) has been observed in albino rats treated with dopamine agonists for prolonged periods (generally during 2-year carcinogenicity studies). This lesion has also been observed when albino rats were exposed to these agents for shorter periods under higher intensity light exposures. Similar changes have not been observed in 2-year carcinogenicity studies in albino mice or in rats or monkeys treated for 1 year. Apomorphine has not been tested in carcinogenicity studies, but based on its mechanism of action it would be expected to cause similar toxicity. The significance of this effect in humans has not been established, but cannot be disregarded because disruption of a mechanism that is universally present in vertebrates (e.g., disk shedding) may be involved.


anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, bronchospasm, hyperhidrosis, rash, urticaria


Hypersensitivity reactions, including urticaria, rash, pruritus, anaphylactoid reactions, and angioedema, may occur following apomorphine administration. Hypersensitivity reactions may be associated with apomorphine or sodium metabisulfite, the sulfite excipient in the products. Mild to life-threatening asthma episodes (bronchospasm) in susceptible patients have also been reported. Hypersensitivity to sodium metabisulfite is seen more frequently in people with asthma. In a clinical study of subcutaneous apomorphine infusions, rash (11%), infusion site pruritus (4%), infusion site rash (2%), hypersensitivity (2%) or infusion site hypersensitivity (2%) were reported. During a premarketing maintenance study of sublingual apomorphine, hypersensitivity reactions (i.e., facial edema, oral allergy syndrome, and urticaria) occurred in 6% of apomorphine-treated patients and more frequently than with placebo. Rechallenge with sublingual apomorphine is not generally recommended after discontinuation due to oral reactions since the reactions may recur and may be more severe than the initial event. Dermatologic effects reported with sublingual apomorphine which were not related to hypersensitivity included hyperhidrosis (sweating), occurring in at least 5% of patients receiving subcutaneous apomorphine and 6% of sublingual apomorphine recipients.


hemolytic anemia


In a clinical study of subcutaneous apomorphine infusions, hemolytic anemia was reported in 2% of medication recipients. Hemolytic anemia has also been reported from postmarketing experience with apomorphine. Severe anemia, angina, and dyspnea were presenting symptoms. Many of the reported cases included positive direct antiglobulin test (Coombs test), which suggests a potential immune-mediated hemolysis. Some patients experiencing hemolytic anemia received treatment with high dose glucocorticoids or blood transfusions. Hemolytic anemia can occur at any time after treatment with apomorphine. Discontinuation of treatment should be considered if hemolytic anemia occurs.


retroperitoneal fibrosis


Cases of retroperitoneal fibrosis, pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusion, pleural thickening, and cardiac valvulopathy have been reported in some patients treated with ergot-derived dopaminergic agents. While these complications may resolve when the drug is discontinued, complete resolution does not always occur. Although these adverse reactions are believed to be related to the ergoline structure of these dopamine agonists, it is not known whether non-ergot derived dopamine agonists, such as apomorphine, can cause these reactions.


withdrawal-emergent hyperpyrexia and confusion


Abrupt discontinuation of apomorphine is generally not advised unless medically necessary. A symptom complex characterized by withdrawal-emergent hyperpyrexia and confusion may occur. This complex may resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome, with elevated temperature, muscular rigidity, altered consciousness, and autonomic instability reported in association with rapid dose reduction, withdrawal of, or changes in antiparkinsonian therapy and in the absence of other obvious etiology. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dose reduction may also result in increased severity of Parkinson disease motor symptoms. If possible, apomorphine should be tapered before discontinuation.


Description

Apomorphine, a non-narcotic derivative of morphine, is approved as a sublingual film for the treatment of acute, intermittent 'off' episodes associated with Parkinson disease and as a subcutaneous injection for use in people with advanced Parkinson disease. It is also approved as a subcutaneous continuous infusion that is administered through a pump for the treatment of motor fluctuations in adults with advanced Parkinson disease. Additionally, apomorphine has been used as a diagnostic test for dopaminergic responsiveness in parkinsonian syndromes to determine whether a patient will respond or is still responsive to levodopa therapy. Apomorphine has a quick onset of action, a significant effect on parkinsonian hypomobility ('off' episodes) unresponsive to oral medications, and a therapeutic effect comparable to levodopa. Due to a high incidence of nausea and vomiting, apomorphine is coadministered with the antiemetic drug trimethobenzamide. Based on reports of profound low blood pressure and loss of consciousness when apomorphine was administered with ondansetron, the concomitant use of 5-HT3 antagonists with apomorphine is contraindicated. Similar to other dopamine agonists, apomorphine has been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living and impulse control symptoms (e.g., intense urges to gamble or spend money, increased sexual urges). During treatment with apomorphine, practitioners should monitor for hypotension, orthostasis, new or worsening impulse control symptoms, and patient reports of sudden sleep onset. Apomorphine was initially FDA approved in 2004.

Mechanism Of Action

Apomorphine has structural similarities to the neurotransmitter dopamine that are thought to contribute to its central dopamine receptor agonist properties. Apomorphine exhibits a high affinity for dopamine D4 receptors, a moderate affinity for dopamine D2, D3, and D5 receptors, and a low affinity for D1 receptors. Apomorphine may be a partial agonist at D1 receptors; however, further studies are needed to confirm this effect. Although the exact mechanism by which apomorphine exerts its therapeutic effects in Parkinson's disease is unknown, it is thought to occur via activation at postsynaptic D2 receptors in the caudate nucleus and putamen. Apomorphine has a moderate affinity for alpha-1D, alpha-2B, and alpha-2C adrenergic receptors, and a low affinity for the serotonin receptors 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, 5-HT2B, and 5-HT2C. Stimulation of the chemoreceptor trigger zone (CTZ) by the drug produces potent emetic actions. Apomorphine is a morphine derivative, but generally does not possess any narcotic effects except for emesis induction, CNS depression, and respiratory depression.

Pharmacokinetics

Apomorphine is administered by subcutaneous injection or infusion or as a sublingual film. A high first-pass metabolism prohibits the use of an oral formulation. Apomorphine has a large volume of distribution (mean: 218 L) and is 85% to 90% bound to plasma proteins, predominantly to albumin. Maximum concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are less than 10% of maximum plasma concentrations and occur 10 minutes to 20 minutes after maximum plasma concentrations are achieved from subcutaneous dosing. Metabolism is thought to occur in the liver through several pathways including glucuronidation, sulfation, and N-demethylation. Apomorphine does not appear to be significantly metabolized by catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT). The primary metabolite, apomorphine sulfate, is not pharmacologically active. N-demethylation produces norapomorphine. This metabolite is thought to possess some pharmacologic activity, but it has a lower affinity for dopamine receptors than the parent compound. Several CYP450 isoenzymes are thought to be involved in the demethylation of apomorphine including CYP2B6, CYP3A4/5, and CYP2C8, but these appear to have a very minor role in the metabolism of the drug according to in vitro studies. Half-lives are dependent on the route and method of administration. Sublingual apomorphine has a mean elimination half-life of about 1.7 hours (range: 0.8 hours to 3 hours). Intermittent subcutaneous apomorphine injection has a mean elimination half-life of about 40 minutes (range: 30 to 60 minutes). The mean apparent clearance from plasma is 261 to 280 L/hour for subcutaneous apomorphine infusion rates ranging from 2 to 6 mg/hour. After administration of an extra dose during subcutaneous continuous infusion, the mean apomorphine elimination half-life is approximately 40 minutes. Approximately 86% of a subcutaneously infused dose of 14C-apomorphine was recovered in the urine within 48 hours as apomorphine sulfate, apomorphine glucuronide, and norapomorphine glucuronide. Another 4.6% of the administered dose was recovered in the feces over 144 hours as apomorphine sulfate, apomorphine glucuronide, and apomorphine. The apparent clearance of apomorphine does not appear to be influenced by the duration of Parkinson disease, levodopa dose, use of antiemetic, or duration of therapy.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None
CYP2B6, CYP3A4/5, and CYP2C8 are thought to be involved in the demethylation of apomorphine, but these isoenzymes appear to have a very minor role in the metabolism of the drug. In vitro studies indicate that apomorphine is unlikely to act as a CYP inhibitor or inducer.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Subcutaneous Route

Subcutaneous injection (Apokyn)
The absorption of apomorphine after subcutaneous injection is dependent on many variables such as location of injection, body temperature, and percentage of body fat. Abdominal injections result in faster absorption than injections into the thigh, and lowering the temperature of the injection site slows absorption. Improvement in Parkinson symptoms become evident within about 7 to 14 minutes following a subcutaneous injection, with a duration of action up to 2 hours. Onset of emesis occurs within 3 to 10 minutes of a subcutaneous dose, with a duration of 60 minutes.
 
Subcutaneous infusion (Onapgo)
After administration, bioavailability of subcutaneous apomorphine appears equal to that of intravenous administration. Steady-state concentrations are reached approximately 2 hours after initiation of a continuous dose. If an extra dose is administered at the initiation of the continuous infusion, time to reach half (50%) of infusion steady-state concentrations can be shortened by 50% to 75%. If an extra dose is administered 2 hours or later following initiation of a continuous infusion, the supplemental exposure from the extra dose reaches peak concentration in 20 to 40 minutes.

Inhalation Route

Intranasal Route
Alternative formulations (e.g., intranasal inhalation) of apomorphine have been investigated as potential delivery systems but are not FDA-approved. Optimal dosages for intranasal apomorphine range from 2 to 5 mg per inhalation with benefit seen at 7.5 minutes and a duration of action ranging from 45 to 55 minutes. Side effects have included nasal irritation, vestibulitis, dyskinesias, yawning, and nausea.

Other Route(s)

Sublingual Route (e.g., Kynmobi sublingual film)
Following sublingual administration of 15 mg of apomorphine, the time to maximum concentration (Tmax) ranged from 0.5 to 1 hour. Apomorphine exhibits less than a dose-proportional increase in exposures over a dose range of 10 mg to 35 mg (1.2 times the highest recommended dosage) following a single sublingual dose of apomorphine in patients with Parkinson's disease.
 
Rectal Route
Alternative formulations (e.g., rectal) of apomorphine have been investigated as potential delivery systems, but are not FDA-approved. Rectal administration of apomorphine has been evaluated in limited, usually post-operative settings. Administration of a 200 mg apomorphine rectal suppository resulted in an average time to benefit of 32 minutes with an average duration of action of 195 minutes. Sedation, nausea, and faintness were reported as side effects.

Hepatic Impairment

Administration of subcutaneous apomorphine to people with mild to moderate hepatic impairment increases systemic exposure to the drug; therefore, close monitoring is recommended in these populations. In one study comparing the effects of a single subcutaneous dose of apomorphine in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment to healthy subjects, the AUC and Cmax values were increased by approximately 10% and 25%, respectively, in those with hepatic impairment. The effects of subcutaneous apomorphine have not been evaluated in people with severe hepatic impairment. Because of the potential for increased exposure, sublingual apomorphine should be titrated under medical supervision in mild to moderate hepatic disease. Sublingual apomorphine should be avoided in patients with severe hepatic impairment.

Renal Impairment

Administration of subcutaneous apomorphine to people with moderate renal impairment may increase AUC (16%) and Cmax (50%). A reduction in the test dose and starting dose of subcutaneous apomorphine is recommended for individuals with mild to moderate renal impairment. The effects of subcutaneous apomorphine have not been evaluated in people with severe renal impairment or renal failure. Because of the potential for increased exposure, sublingual apomorphine should be titrated under medical supervision in people with mild to moderate renal impairment. Avoid sublingual apomorphine in people with severe renal impairment.

Pediatrics

Pediatric pharmacokinetic data are not available.

Geriatric

The pharmacokinetics of apomorphine in geriatric adults versus younger adults have not been described; however, several adverse effects have been reported to be more frequent in older adults receiving apomorphine.

Gender Differences

The apparent clearance of apomorphine does not appear to be influenced by gender.

Ethnic Differences

The apparent clearance of apomorphine does not appear to be influenced by ethnicity.

Obesity

The apparent clearance of apomorphine does not appear to be influenced by weight.

Other

Alcohol
Coadministration of low dose ethanol (0.3 grams/kg) with subcutaneous apomorphine in healthy subjects did not have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of apomorphine; however, high dose ethanol (0.6 grams/kg), equivalent to about 3 standardized alcohol-containing beverages, increased the maximum concentration of apomorphine by about 63%. A similar study with sublingual apomorphine has not been conducted.

Administration


For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
 
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Oral Film: Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting or otherwise manipulating film will increase exposure.
Injectables: Use double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown. Prepare in a biological safety cabinet or compounding aseptic containment isolator with a closed system drug transfer device. Eye/face and respiratory protection may be needed during preparation and administration.


Oral Administration


Because of the high incidence of nausea and vomiting from apomorphine treatment, premedicate with trimethobenzamide 300 mg PO 3 times daily for 3 days prior to the initial dose of apomorphine. Only continue treatment with trimethobenzamide as long as necessary to control nausea and vomiting, but generally no longer than 2 months after apomorphine treatment initiation, as trimethobenzamide increases the incidence of somnolence, dizziness, and falls in persons treated with apomorphine.


Other Oral Formulations

Sublingual Administration (e.g., Kynmobi sublingual film)
For sublingual administration only.
Sublingual apomorphine dose initiation requires supervision by a health care provider.
Keep the sublingual film in the foil pouch until ready to use.
Must administer the whole film. Do not cut, chew, or swallow the film.
After placement under the tongue, the film will disintegrate in about 3 minutes.
Doses should be separated by at least 2 hours.
Contact the health care provider if the patient's symptoms do not respond to the first dose for a particular 'off' episode. Do not use a second dose for that episode.


Injectable Administration


For subcutaneous use as directed only. Apomorphine must not be given intravenously because of the risk of serious complications, such as thrombus formation and pulmonary embolism due to crystallization.
Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Do not use injections which are unusually viscous, cloudy, or discolored. Always inspect the vial or pre-filled cartridge to be sure the liquid is clear and does not contain particles.
The apomorphine single use injection is a clear, colorless, sterile solution. The apomorphine infusion product is clear and almost colorless.


Subcutaneous Administration

General Information
Because of the high incidence of nausea and vomiting from apomorphine treatment, premedicate with trimethobenzamide 300 mg PO 3 times daily for 3 days prior to the initial dose of apomorphine. Only continue treatment with trimethobenzamide as long as necessary to control nausea and vomiting, but generally no longer than 2 months after apomorphine treatment initiation, as trimethobenzamide increases the incidence of somnolence, dizziness, and falls in persons treated with apomorphine.
Apomorphine injections and subcutaneous infusions are not interchangeable and should not be substituted for one another. There is insufficient information about concomitant use of other apomorphine products concurrently with subcutaneous infusion dosage.
 
Subcutaneous Administration
Single dose intermittent injections (e.g., Apokyn Pen to use with cartridges, APOKYN NXT Prefilled Pen, or approved generics)
Because the apomorphine pen injector has markings in mL, always express the prescribed dose in mL to avoid confusion.
The initial apomorphine injection dose and dosage titrations are intended to be performed by a health care provider. An individual or caregiver may administer apomorphine injection if a health care provider deems that it is appropriate and the patient and/or caregiver has been trained.
Follow the "Instructions For Use" for the specific pen device prescribed.
Begin dosing when an individual is in an "off" state.
Dial the correct dosage (mL) on the pen device as instructed. A new pen needle must be used with each injection. Prior to each injection, it is important that the pen is properly primed.
Administer by subcutaneous injection using proper aseptic technique. Appropriate injection sites include the abdomen, upper arm, or thigh. Rotate injection sites with each injection.
When the injection is complete, discard the pen needle as instructed for the device in an appropriate sharps container. Use care to avoid needle-stick injury. Never recap a pen with the needle attached.
Initial Test Dose: Administer the initial test dose of 0.1 mL (1 mg) or 0.2 mL (2 mg) subcutaneously in a setting where a health care provider can monitor blood pressure and pulse; monitor supine and standing blood pressure and pulse pre-dose and at 20, 40, and 60 minutes post-dose (and after 60 minutes if there is significant hypotension at 60 minutes).
Individuals who develop clinically significant orthostatic hypotension from this test dose are not to be considered candidates for apomorphine injection treatment.
If the test dose is tolerated and there is an adequate response, then the starting dose should be the same as the test dose; the dose may be increased by 0.1 mL (1 mg) every few days on an outpatient basis.
Subsequent dosing: The general principle guiding subsequent dosing is to determine that an individual can tolerate a higher test dose, 0.3 mL (3 mg) or 0.4 mL (4 mg) under close medical supervision. A trial of outpatient dosing may follow using a dose 0.1 mL (1 mg) lower than the tolerated test dose, with periodic assessment of efficacy and tolerability.
If the 0.1 mL (1 mg) test dose is tolerated, but there is an inadequate response, a dose of 0.2 mL (2 mg) may be administered under medical supervision, at least 2 hours after the initial test dose, at the next observed "off" period. If the test dose of 0.2 mL (2 mg) is tolerated but does not respond adequately, a test dose of 0.4 mL (4 mg) may be given under medical supervision at least 2 hours after the initial test dose, at the next observed "off" period. Patients who do not tolerate 0.2 mL (2 mg) may need to be titrated more slowly.
If the patient tolerates and responds to a test dose of 0.4 mL (4 mg), then the initial maintenance dose should be 0.3 mL (3 mg) used on an as needed basis to treat recurring "off" episodes as an outpatient; the dose may be increased by 0.1 mL (1 mg) every few days on an outpatient basis if needed.
If the test dose of 0.4 mL (4 mg) is not tolerated, a test dose of 0.3 mL (3 mg) may be administered during a separate "off" period under medical supervision, at least 2 hours after the previous dose. If the 0.3 mL (3 mg) test dose is tolerated, the initial maintenance dose should be 0.2 mL (2 mg); the dose can be increased to 0.3 mL (3 mg) after a few days. In such an individual, the dose should ordinarily not be increased to 0.4 mL (4 mg) on an outpatient basis.
If a single dose of apomorphine injection is ineffective for a particular "off" period, do not administer a second dose for that "off" episode. The efficacy and safety of administering a second dose for a single "off" episode has not been studied systematically.
Do not administer a repeat dose of apomorphine injection sooner than 2 hours after the last dose.
Treatment interruption: For an interruption in therapy of more than 1 week, restart at the initial apomorphine injection dose and gradually titrate based on clinical response and tolerability.
 
Subcutaneous Infusion (e.g., Onapgo):
Onapgo is administered as a subcutaneous infusion via the Onapgo pump. The daily dose is determined by an individualized patient dosage titration and is composed of a continuous infusion dosage and extra dose(s) "as-needed".
Dosage should be prescribed as mg/hour for the continuous infusion dosage and mg for any extra doses.
Health care providers should read the entire manufacturer provided "Health care provider Instructions for Use" before using the infusion system.
Patients and caregivers should receive education and training on the proper use of the medication and infusion device delivery system prior to first use. Refer to the "Patient Instructions for Use" for complete administration instructions.
Treatment interruption: In the event of a prolonged interruption of treatment, the patient should be prescribed oral medications to treat Parkinson disease symptoms.
Preparation:
A new single-dose cartridge and cartridge holder should be used each day. Discard any unused portion.
Only use the pump with the supplied cartridge and the infusion set provided by the specialty pharmacy. Use of an inappropriate infusion set may cause loss or leakage of the medication.
Priming the infusion line pushes liquid through the system and removes all air from the glass drug cartridge and infusion line. All air must be removed from the system before the line is connected to the infusion site on the body.
Read the "Instructions for Use" for the infusion set before using the infusion line.
Administration:
Administer apomorphine subcutaneously using the Onapgo infusion pump in one of the following areas: abdomen (at least 2 inches away from the navel), top of thigh, lower back. The upper back may also be used, but only when the infusion is being prepared by the caregiver or health care provider.
Keep the infusion site clean and use aseptic technique.
Change the infusion site each day. Do not select an infusion site that is bruised, has bumps or nodules, or is irritated.
If the pump gets wet, pause the infusion, disconnect the infusion line from the body, and store the pump in a dry place. This includes when swimming, showering, or excessively sweating.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Subcutaneous injection (e.g., Apokyn): 0.6 mL (6 mg) per single injection and 5 injections/day not to exceed 2 mL/day (20 mg)/day subcutaneously.
Sublingual dosage form: 30 mg/dose and no more than 5 doses/day SL.
Subcutaneous infusion (i.e., Onapgo): Maximum continuous dosage is 6 mg/hour administered over the waking day (e.g., 16 hours) and no more than 98 mg/day.

Geriatric

Subcutaneous injection (e.g., Apokyn): 0.6 mL (6 mg) per single injection and 5 injections/day not to exceed 2 mL/day (20 mg)/day subcutaneously.
Sublingual dosage form: 30 mg/dose and no more than 5 doses/day SL.
Subcutaneous infusion (i.e., Onapgo): Maximum continuous dosage is 6 mg/hour administered over the waking day (e.g., 16 hours) and no more than 98 mg/day.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Apokyn 10mg/ml Penfill Solution for Injection

Apokyn 10mg/ml Penfill Solution for Injection

Apomorphine Hydrochloride 10mg/1mL Solution for Injection, Pen Refills

Apomorphine Hydrochloride 10mg/1mL Solution for Injection, Pen Refills with Pen Injector, Pen Needle

Apomorphine Hydrochloride Bulk powder

ONAPGO 98mg/20mL Pre-Filled Cartridge Solution for Injection

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Sublingual Film
Mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Classes A and B): No dosage adjustment is needed; however, because of the potential for increased exposure, titrate under medical supervision.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C): Avoid use.
 
Subcutaneous injection
Use with caution in hepatic impairment. A dose reduction may be warranted; however, specific guidelines are not available. People with severe hepatic impairment have not been evaluated.
 
Subcutaneous infusion
Exercise caution and closely monitor use in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment due to increased apomorphine concentration and exposure in these patients. Studies in people with severe hepatic impairment have not been conducted.

Renal Impairment

Sublingual Film
Mild or moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 80 mL/minute): No dosage adjustment is needed; however, because of the potential for increased exposure, titrate under medical supervision.
Severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute): Avoid use.
 
Subcutaneous injection
Mild to moderate renal impairment: The test dose and starting dose is 1 mg (0.1 mL).
Severe renal impairment: Not evaluated.
 
Subcutaneous Infusion
Mild to moderate renal impairment: The recommended initial extra dose is 0.5 mg to 1 mg; do not exceed 1 mg. No adjustment is needed for the continuous dose, maximum recommended dose, or subsequent extra doses after the initial extra dose.
Severe renal impairment: Not evaluated.

© 2026 Elsevier