=== Palonosetron (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2806)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Palonosetron is a highly selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of acute chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy and for the prevention of delayed emesis after moderately...

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 0.25 mg IV as a single dose.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, dyskinesia, euphoria, headache, insomnia, paresthesias, hiccups, hypersalivation, anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, bronchospasm, contact dermatitis, dyspnea, injection site reaction, pruritus, rash, urticaria, bradycardia, edema, hypertension, hypotension, qt prolongation, sinus tachycardia, arthralgia, chills, fatigue, fever, hot flashes

In an Overdose: QT prolongation Moderate Incidence To hypertension Moderate Incidence To edema Moderate Incidence To sinus tachycardia Moderate Incidence To hypotension Moderate Incidence To bradycardia Severe Incidence To Generalized disorders, including...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Palonosetron should not be used in any patient with a known or suspected palonosetron hypersensitivity or hypersensitivity to any inactive ingredients of the product. Additionally, the capsules should not be used in patients with gelatin hypersensitivity.

Brand Names
  - Aloxi
  - Posfrea

Dosage Forms
  - Palonosetron Hydrochloride 0.05mg/1mL Solution for injection
  - Posfrea 0.25mg/5mL Solution for Injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.25 mg IV over 30 seconds, given as a single dose 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy.
        Heading
        Infants, Children, and Adolescents
        Dosage Description
        20 mcg/kg/dose (Max: 1.5 mg/dose) IV infused over 15 minutes as a single dose 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy.
    Heading
    For chemotherapy-induced nausea/vomiting prophylaxis (CINV prophylaxis)
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.075 mg IV single dose administered over 10 seconds immediately before the induction of anesthesia.
    Heading
    For post-operative nausea/vomiting (PONV) prophylaxis for up to 24 hours after surgery

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Palonosetron should not be used in any patient with a known or suspected palonosetron hypersensitivity or hypersensitivity to any inactive ingredients of the product. Additionally, the capsules should not be used in patients with gelatin hypersensitivity. Palonosetron should be used cautiously in patients with prior allergic reactions to other 5HT-3 receptor antagonists(e.g., granisetron hypersensitivity, dolasetron hypersensitivity, or ondansetron hypersensitivity); it is not known if a cross-sensitivity exists. Cross-sensitivity has been reported with some agents in the class. Furthermore, it has been hypothesized that antagonism at serotonin (5HT) receptors, and the subsequent increased concentrations of serotonin, increase the risk of developing bronchospasm and/or vasoconstriction. There have been several reports of anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions associated with the use of drugs in this class. It is not clear at this time if these reactions are due to the use of the serotonin antagonist alone or due to a drug interaction between the serotonin antagonist and a chemotherapeutic agent. Nevertheless, clinicians should not overlook this possibility.Previously, the manufacturer recommended to use caution if palonosetron was administered to patients with a current or past history of prolonged cardiac conduction intervals (e.g., QT prolongation, family history of congenital QT syndrome), including ventricular arrhythmias or other cardiac arrhythmias. However, in February 2008, this warning was removed from the package labeling. The dose-response relationship to the QTc interval has not been fully evaluated; however, = 65 years of age, while only 5% (n=71) were >= 75 years. Elderly patients may at greater risk for dehydration and subsequent electrolyte abnormalities from vomiting.Palonosetron is listed in FDA pregnancy risk category B. Animal-based teratology studies have not revealed evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to palonosetron. There are, however, no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response. The effects of palonosetron on labor and delivery are not known. Palonosetron should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed.It is not known if palonosetron is excreted in human milk. Many drugs are excreted in human milk and may increase the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breast-feeding infant. The manufacturer warns against the use of palonsetron in breast-feeding women due to the possible risks to the infant, although the benefits of breast-feeding should also be considered
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Serious hypersensitivity reactions have also occurred in individuals with known hypersensitivity to other 5-HT3 receptor antagonists.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the use of palonosetron during human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In animal studies, no effects on embryo-fetal development were observed in rats and rabbits exposed to palonosetron during organogenesis at oral doses up to 1,894 and 3,789 times the recommended human intravenous dose, based on body surface area.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use palonosetron with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of palonosetron in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Due to a lack of data, an alternative drug such as ondansetron, may be preferred.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the use of palonosetron during human pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. In animal studies, no effects on embryo-fetal development were observed in rats and rabbits exposed to palonosetron during organogenesis at oral doses up to 1,894 and 3,789 times the recommended human intravenous dose, based on body surface area.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use palonosetron with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of palonosetron in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Due to a lack of data, an alternative drug such as ondansetron, may be preferred.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dihydrocodeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) If concomitant use of alfentanil and palonosetron is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Alosetron: (Major) Theoretically, the coadministration of two potent and selective 5HT-3 antagonists, such as palonosetron and alosetron could lead to severe constipation. Constipation, reported individually with alosetron in roughly 25% of patients, could be worsened by the administration of palonosetron, which has a constipation rate of roughly 5% as well as a long half-life. Patients who are debilitated, elderly or taking medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for constipation. Ischemic colitis has been reported in patients receiving alosetron during clinical trials and post-marketing. If a decision is made to co-prescribe palonosetron and alosetron, the patient should be informed of the potential for worsening constipation and should contact their health care provider immediately. If severe constipation or ischemic colitis develops while taking these two drugs, the alosetron should be discontinued immediately and not re-started.
Apomorphine: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of apomorphine and serotonin-receptor antagonists is contraindicated due to the possibility of an excessive lowering of blood pressure and unconsciousness. Additionally, additive QT prolongation is possible during coadministration of apomorphine with dolasetron, granisetron, and ondansetron.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Minor) Aprepitant, fosaprepitant is indicated for the prophylaxis of chemotherapy-induced nausea/vomiting in combination with a 5HT3 antagonist, one of which is palonosetron. Palonosetron is a CYP3A4 substrate. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer and theoretically could increase plasma concentrations of palonosetron. The AUC of another CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam, was increased for several days after aprepitant dosing when the two drugs were coadministered; however, in clinical drug interaction studies, aprepitant did not have clinically important effects on the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron, granisetron, or dolasetron. The effects of aprepitant on palonosetron pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant and shares many of the same drug interactions. However, as a single 150 mg intravenous dose, fosaprepitant only weakly inhibits CYP3A4 for a duration of 2 days; there is no evidence of CYP3A4 induction.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Artemether; lumefantrine should be used with caution with netupitant; palonosetron. Lumefantrine is an inhibitor of CYP2D6, and palonosetron is a substrate of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme. Coadministration may lead to increased palonosetron concentrations and serotonin-related side effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Atazanavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with atazanavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor; palonosetron is a substrate of CYP3A4.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with atazanavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 inhibitor; palonosetron is a substrate of CYP3A4. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; palonosetron is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering benzhydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylene blue. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and palonosetron is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and palonosetron is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and serotonin-receptor antagonists (5HT-3 receptor antagonists) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tramadol and palonosetron is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Citalopram: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution and monitor closely when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as citalopram. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; palonosetron is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Darunavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; palonosetron is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; palonosetron is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; palonosetron is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; palonosetron is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; palonosetron is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Desvenlafaxine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as desvenlafaxine. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Although clinical studies have shown that desvenlafaxine does not have a clinically relevant effect on CYP2D6 inhibition at doses of 100 mg/day, the manufacturer recommends the dose reduction of CYP2D6 substrates, such as palonosetron,by up to one-half if co-administered with desvenlafaxine 400 mg/day.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Coadminister with caution. Palonosetron is metabolized by CYP2D6, and quinidine is an inhibitor of this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in elevated plasma concentrations of palonosetron, causing ain increased risk for serotonin-related adverse events.
Dichlorphenamide: (Moderate) Use dichlorphenamide and palonosetron together with caution as both drugs can cause metabolic acidosis. Concurrent use may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis. Measure sodium bicarbonate concentrations at baseline and periodically during dichlorphenamide treatment. If metabolic acidosis occurs or persists, consider reducing the dose or discontinuing dichlorphenamide therapy.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Coadminister dronedarone and palonosetron together with caution. Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Palonsetron is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Coadministration of dronedarone and palonosetron may result in elevated plasma concentrations of palonsetron.
DULoxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as duloxetine. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Moderate) Administering palonosetron with elbasvir; grazoprevir may result in elevated palonosetron plasma concentrations. Palonosetron is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; palonosetron is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of palonosetron may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects, such as CNS effects, is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; palonosetron is a substrate of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Escitalopram: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution and monitor closely when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as escitalopram. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of fenfluramine if coadministered with serotonin receptor antagonists. Concurrent use may decrease the activity of fenfluramine. Also monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) If concomitant use of fentanyl and palonosetron is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as fluoxetine. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as fluvoxamine. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and palonosetron is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydromorphone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylene blue. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with palonosetron may result in increased serum concentrations of palonosetron. Palonosetron is a substrate of the hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate inhibitor of this enzyme. Caution and close monitoring are advised if these drugs are used together.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Serotonin syndrome has been described following the concomitant use of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and serotonin-receptor antagonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levomilnacipran: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as levomilnacipran. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and levomilnacipran and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levorphanol with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Linezolid: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as linezolid. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Lithium: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as lithium. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering meperidine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metaxalone and serotonin-receptor antagonists (5HT-3 receptor antagonists) may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylene blue. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Methylene Blue: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as methylene blue. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Milnacipran: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as milnacipran. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Mirabegron: (Moderate) Mirabegron is a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor. Exposure of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 such as palonosetron may be increased when co-administered with mirabegron. Palonosetron is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6. Therefore, appropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as mirtazapine. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Mitotane: (Minor) Use caution if mitotane and palonosetron are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of palonosetron and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Palonosetron is metabolized via multiple CYP isoenzymes, including CYP3A4; coadministration may theoretically result in decreased plasma concentrations of palonosetron, however, the potential for clinically significant drug interactions appears to be low.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Serotonin syndrome has been described following the concomitant use of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
Morphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering morphine with serotonin-receptor antagonist. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering nalbuphine with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as fluoxetine. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and serotonin-receptor antagonists is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxymorphone with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
PARoxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as paroxetine. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to palonosetron if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while palonosetron is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Serotonin syndrome has been described following the concomitant use of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Coadminister with caution. Palonosetron is metabolized by CYP2D6, and quinidine is an inhibitor of this isoenzyme. Coadministration may result in elevated plasma concentrations of palonosetron, causing ain increased risk for serotonin-related adverse events.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering remifentanil with serotonin-receptor antagonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant selegiline and serotonin-receptor antagonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Sertraline: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as sertraline. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering sufentanil with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tapentadol with serotonin-receptor antagonists. The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, mostly when used in combination with other serotonergic medications. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
traMADol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tramadol and palonosetron is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tramadol and palonosetron is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Tranylcypromine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Serotonin syndrome has been described following the concomitant use of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as venlafaxine. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Vilazodone: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, use caution and monitor closely when administering palonosetron with other drugs that have serotonergic properties, such as vilazodone. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, discontinue palonosetron and concurrent serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  During clinical trials, headache (9% in CINV trials and 3% in PONV trials) was a commonly reported adverse event; the frequency or severity of palonosetron side effects did not differ significantly from ondansetron or dolasetron in the CINV trials. The effect of concomitantly administered chemotherapeutic regimens, corticosteroids, or perioperative/intraoperative medications may have contributed to occurrence of some side effects reported in palonosetron clinical trials.During clinical trials, constipation (5% in CINV trials and 2% in PONV trials) was a commonly reported adverse event; the frequency or severity of palonosetron side effects did not differ significantly from ondansetron or dolasetron in the CINV trials. Constipation was severe in 2 patients receiving a single dose of roughly 0.75 mg IV in other trials for palonosetron, although dose-related side effects have not been observed in studies assessing up to 6 mg per dose (25 times the recommended dose). The effect of concomitantly administered chemotherapeutic regimens, corticosteroids, or perioperative/intraoperative medications may have contributed to occurrence of some side effects reported in palonosetron clinical trials.Diarrhea (1%) and abdominal pain were reported with palonosetron use in clinical trials. Anorexia or decreased appetite, dyspepsia, flatulence, hiccups and xerostomia were also noted in clinical trials, but causality with palonosetron is unknown. Transient and asymptomatic elevated hepatic enzymes (AST, ALT or bilirubin) occurred in < 1% of patients receiving palonosetron.In addition to headache, central nervous system or psychiatric adverse events with palonosetron included: anxiety (1%), dizziness (1%), asthenia (1%), euphoria (< 1%), fatigue (< 1%), hypersomnia and insomnia (< 1%), paresthesias (< 1 %), and drowsiness (somnolence, < 1%).Some cardiovascular events were reported in clinical trials including non-sustained tachycardia (1%), sinus bradycardia (1%), hyperkalemia (1%), and hypotension (1%). Other events reported with an incidence < 1% were hypertension, myocardial ischemia, extrasystoles, sinus tachycardia, sinus arrhythmias, supraventricular extrasystoles and other ECG anomalies. The effect of palonosetron on blood pressure, heart rate, and ECG parameters including QTc were comparable to ondansetron and dolasetron. Previously, the manufacturer warned that palonosetron should be used cautiously in patients with a current or past history of prolonged cardiac conduction intervals, but that warning was removed from the package labeling in February 2008. In patients given palonosetron for the prevention of post-operative nausea and vomiting, the incidence of QT prolongation was 5% in the treatment group vs. 3% in the placebo group; the study investigators attributed approximately 1% to be treatment-related or causality unknown. Additionally, in a study in healthy volunteers, palonosetron in combination with meloxicam had no affect on the QTc interval. Although it is possible that the conduction abnormalities are due to perioperative and intraoperative medications, it may be prudent to monitor patients for QT prolongation or arrhythmia exacerbation, especially in patients receiving other drugs known to prolong the QT interval (see Drug Interactions).Dermatologic reactions were infrequent (< 1%) in clinical trials of palonosetron and included allergic dermatitis and rash (unspecified). Very rare cases (< 1 in 10,000) of hypersensitivity reactions have been reported during post-marketing experience. With the use of ondansetron, another frequently used 5HT-3 antagonist, the FDA has received roughly 24 reports of anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions to ondansetron injection. Antagonism of serotonin (5HT) receptors and the subsequent increased levels of serotonin have been hypothesized to increase the risk of developing bronchospasm and/or vasoconstriction. Manifestations have included angioedema, bronchospasm, dyspnea, hypotension, laryngeal edema, stridor, and/or urticaria. Laryngospasm, shock, cardiac arrest, and respiratory arrest have been reported during allergic reactions in patients receiving injectable ondansetron. It is not clear at this time if these reactions are due to the use of the serotonin antagonist alone or due to a drug interaction between the serotonin antagonist and a chemotherapeutic agent.Other infrequent or rare side effects (causality unknown) that were reported with palonosetron in clinical trials and generally occurred in < 1% of patients included: amblyopia, arthralgia, eye irritation, fever, flu-like syndrome, glycosuria, hot flash, hyperglycemia, metabolic acidosis, motion sickness, tinnitus, urinary retention, and vein distention.Rarely, injection site reactions (burning, induration, discomfort, and pain) have been reported during post-marketing experience.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, dyskinesia, euphoria, headache, insomnia, paresthesias
    General Information
    Headache (3% to 9%) was commonly reported in adult patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials. Other central nervous system adverse events that occurred in 1% or less of patients include anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness (somnolence), euphoria, insomnia, hypersomnia, and paresthesias. Headache, dizziness, and dyskinesia were also reported in less than 1% of pediatric patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, hiccups, hypersalivation, xerostomia
    General Information
    Constipation was reported in 2% to 5% of adult patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials. Severe constipation was reported in 2 subjects following a single palonosetron injection dose of approximately 0.75 mg (3 times the recommended dose). Other gastrointestinal adverse events that occurred in 1% or less of adult patients who received palonosetron include abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, GI hypomotility, hiccups, hypersalivation, and xerostomia (dry mouth).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hiccups
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypersalivation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions, bronchospasm, contact dermatitis, dyspnea, injection site reaction, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Allergic and hypersensitivity reactions, including contact dermatitis (allergic dermatitis), rash, and pruritus, were reported in 1% or less of adult patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials. An injection site reaction (vein discoloration and vein distention) was also observed in 1% or less of patients. Allergic disorder, infusion site pain, and skin disorder were reported in less than 1% of pediatric patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials. Injection site reactions (i.e., burning, induration, discomfort, and pain) and hypersensitivity reactions, such as anaphylactoid reactions or anaphylactic shock, dyspnea, bronchospasm, erythema, and urticaria, have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactic shock
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bronchospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      contact dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    bradycardia, edema, hypertension, hypotension, QT prolongation, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    QT prolongation (5%) and bradycardia (4%) were reported in adult patients receiving palonosetron for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) in clinical trials. Some events are known to be associated with, or may be exacerbated by, concomitant perioperative and intraoperative medications administered to adult patients undergoing surgery and studies have shown that palonosetron given at a dose of 9 times the maximum recommended adult dose does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent. Other cardiovascular adverse events that occurred in 1% or less of adult patients who received palonosetron in clinical trials include decreased T-wave amplitude, extrasystoles, including supraventricular and ventricular extrasystoles, sinus arrhythmia, sinus tachycardia, nonsustained tachycardia, myocardial ischemia, generalized edema, hypertension, and hypotension.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, chills, fatigue, fever, hot flashes, influenza, weakness
    General Information
    Generalized disorders, including chills, fever, influenza-like syndrome, hot flashes, arthralgia, fatigue, and weakness were reported in 1% or less of adult patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chills
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    tinnitus
    General Information
    Tinnitus and motion sickness have been reported in 1% or less of adult patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    glycosuria, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, metabolic acidosis
    General Information
    Metabolic disorders, including hypokalemia, hyperkalemia, electrolyte fluctuations, hyperglycemia, metabolic acidosis, and glycosuria, were reported in 1% or less of adult patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      glycosuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      metabolic acidosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    urinary retention
    General Information
    Urinary retention was reported in 1% or less of adult patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes (AST and/or ALT concentrations) and hyperbilirubinemia were reported in 1% or less of adult patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoventilation, laryngospasm
    General Information
    Hypoventilation and laryngospasm were reported in 1% or less of adult patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoventilation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      laryngospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Decreased platelet counts (thrombocytopenia) were reported in 1% or less of adult patients receiving palonosetron in clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    serotonin syndrome
    General Information
    Serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, such as palonosetron, during concurrent use of other medications known to increase CNS or peripheral serotonin levels or during overdose. Some of the reported cases were fatal; most occurred in a post-anesthesia care unit or infusion center. If serotonin syndrome becomes evident during treatment, discontinue palonosetron and any other serotonergic agents and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Serotonin syndrome is a range of signs and symptoms that can include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, coma), gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), and/or seizures.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Palonosetron is a highly selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of acute chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy and for the prevention of delayed emesis after moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. Palonosetron is also used for the prevention of post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV). Palonosetron's superior efficacy in controlling delayed emesis has been demonstrated against both ondansetron and dolasetron. However, the superiority of palonosetron in acute-CINV, as compared to ondansetron or dolasetron, has not been consistently determined. Results from 2 pivotal phase III clinical trials for the prevention of PONV have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of palonosetron in producing a complete response (no emesis or use of rescue medication) for a 24-hour time period after surgery. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) guidelines recommend that adult patients who are treated with moderate to high-emetic-risk chemotherapy agents should be offered a 3-drug combination of a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, a neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor antagonist, and dexamethasone; olanzapine is also added to the 3-drug combination during use of high-emetic-risk agents. Children receiving moderate to high-emetic-risk agents should be offered a 2-drug combination of a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and dexamethasone; aprepitant is also added to the 2-drug combination during use of high-emetic-risk agents. Palonosetron was FDA-approved in 2003.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Palonosetron selectively blocks serotonin 5-HT3 receptors to prevent emesis and has little to no affinity for other serotonin receptors. 5-HT3 receptors are found centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone (CTZ) of the area postrema and peripherally at vagal nerve terminals in the intestines. Emesis during chemotherapy appears to be associated with the release of serotonin from enterochromaffin cells in the small intestine. The released serotonin then activates the 5-HT3 receptors located on vagal afferent nerves to initiate the vomiting reflex. Palonosetron, by blocking the vagal nerve endings in the intestines, prevents signal transmission to the CTZ, and reduces the incidence of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV).

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    After intravenous dosing of palonosetron in healthy subjects and people with cancer, an initial decline in palonosetron plasma concentrations is followed by a slow elimination from the body. Mean Cmax and AUC are generally dose proportional over the dose range of 0.3 to 90 mcg/kg in healthy subjects and in people with cancer. After a single dose of palonosetron 3 mcg/kg IV to 6 people with cancer, mean (+/-SD) Cmax was estimated to be 5.6 +/- 5.5 ng/mL and mean AUC was 35.8 +/- 20.9 ng x hour/mL. After intravenous administration of palonosetron 0.25 mg once every other day for 3 doses in 11 people with cancer, the mean increase in plasma palonosetron concentration from Day 1 to Day 5 was 42 +/- 34%. After intravenous administration of palonosetron 0.25 mg once daily for 3 days in 12 healthy subjects, the mean (+/-SD) increase in plasma palonosetron concentration from Day 1 to Day 3 was 110 +/- 45%.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Hepatic impairment does not significantly affect the total body clearance of palonosetron compared to healthy subjects.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment does not significantly affect palonosetron pharmacokinetics. Total systemic exposure of palonosetron increased by approximately 28% in individuals with severe renal impairment compared to healthy subjects; however, this increase is not considered clinically relevant.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The mean total body clearance of palonosetron is faster in younger pediatric patients with cancer compared to older patients and approaches values similar to those seen in healthy adults at 12 to 17 years. The mean clearance after a single IV dose of 20 mcg/kg in patients younger than 2 years, 2 to 5 years, 6 to 11 years, and 12 to 16 years was 0.31 L/hour/kg, 0.23 L/hour/kg, 0.19 L/hour/kg, and 0.16 L/hour/kg, respectively. Peak plasma concentrations of palonosetron were highly variable across pediatric age groups, with patients younger than 6 years of age having lower concentrations compared to older patients. The half-life of palonosetron ranged from 20 to 30 hours. Dose proportional increases in the mean AUC were seen in pediatric patients when the dose was increased from 10 mcg/kg to 20 mcg/kg.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Differences in the pharmacokinetic parameters of palonosetron have not been identified in older adults 65 years and older vs. younger adults with cancer (18 to 64 years).
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Although clearance has been shown to be 25% higher in Japanese subjects compared to Whites, this increase is not considered to be clinically relevant.
  Text
  Palonosetron is administered intravenously. It has a Vd of approximately 8.3 +/- 2.5 L/kg and is approximately 62% bound to plasma proteins. Palonosetron and metabolites are primarily eliminated renally via metabolic pathways. After a single intravenous dose of 10 mcg/kg, approximately 80% of the dose was recovered within 144 hours in the urine with palonosetron representing approximately 40% of the administered dose; inactive metabolites accounted for roughly 50% of the dose. In healthy subjects, total body clearance and renal clearance were approximately 160 mL/hour/kg and 67 mL/hour/kg, respectively. Mean terminal half-life of palonosetron is approximately 40 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP1A2
The potential for clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug interactions with palonosetron appears to be low. In vitro studies have suggested that CYP2D6, and to a lesser extent CYP3A4 and CYP1A2, are involved in the metabolism of palonosetron. Pharmacokinetically, palonosetron parameters do not differ between poor and extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, suggesting that inhibition or induction of the CYP2D6 enzyme by other drugs would not affect palonosetron disposition. Palonosetron has not been shown to inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP34/5 nor does palonosetron induce CYP1A2, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4/5. CYP2C19 has not been investigated; other 5HT-3 antagonists have not been shown to have interactions via the CYP2C19 enzyme. In vitro, palonosetron was an inhibitor of MATE1, MATE2-k, OCT1, and OCT2, and OCT3 transporters. An in vivo interaction between palonosetron and transporter substrates is considered unlikely.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Do not mix with other drugs.
Flush the infusion line with normal saline before and after administration.
Discard unused portion.
Chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (CINV)
Adults: Infuse IV over 30 seconds approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy.
Pediatrics: Infuse IV over 15 minutes approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy.
Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV)
Infuse IV over 10 seconds immediately before the induction of anesthesia.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    0.25 mg IV as a single dose.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    0.25 mg IV as a single dose.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    20 mcg/kg/dose (Max: 1.5 mg/dose) IV as a single dose.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    20 mcg/kg/dose (Max: 1.5 mg/dose) IV as a single dose.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    20 mcg/kg/dose IV as a single dose.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
