=== Eptifibatide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2204)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Eptifibatide is an intravenous platelet aggregation inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), including intracoronary stenting, and acute coronary syndromes managed medically or with PCI.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 180 mcg/kg (Max: 22.6 mg) IV bolus and 2 mcg/kg/minute (Max: 15 mg/hour) continuous IV infusion.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bleeding, gi bleeding, hematemesis, hematuria, retroperitoneal bleeding

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Inhibition of platelet aggregation by eptifibatide increases the risk of bleeding, especially in patients with predisposing conditions. Eptifibatide is contraindicated in patients with any of the following: any coagulopathy or bleeding diathesis, severe uncontrolled hypertension (SBP > 200 mmHg or...

Brand Names
  - Integrilin

Dosage Forms
  - Eptifibatide 0.75mg/1mL Solution for injection
  - Eptifibatide 2mg/1mL Solution for injection

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        180 mcg/kg (Max: 22.6 mg) IV bolus, followed by 2 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion. Max: 15 mg/hour. Administer a second 180 mcg/kg IV bolus 10 minutes after the first bolus. Continue the infusion until hospital discharge, or for up to 18 to 24 hours, whichever comes first. A minimum of 12 hours of therapy is recommended. Give concomitantly with aspirin and heparin. Administer aspirin 160 to 325 mg PO at 1 to 24 hours prior to PCI and daily thereafter. Dose heparin to maintain a target ACT of 200 to 300 seconds. Administer a heparin 60 unit/kg IV bolus initially in patients not treated with heparin within 6 hours prior to PCI; additional boluses may be administered during PCI to maintain target ACT. Do not administer heparin after PCI. Discontinue eptifibatide in patients who require thrombolytic therapy. Discontinue eptifibatide at least 2 to 4 hours prior to CABG surgery.
    Heading
    For the adjunctive treatment of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), including those undergoing coronary stenting, to prevent cardiac ischemic complications (e.g., myocardial infarction prophylaxis)
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        180 mcg/kg (Max: 22.6 mg) IV bolus, followed by 2 mcg/kg/minute (Max: 15 mg/hour) continuous IV infusion until hospital discharge or initiation of CABG surgery up to 72 hours or until hospital discharge or 18 to 24 hours after PCI, whichever is earlier, allowing for up to 96 hours of therapy. Administer an additional 180 mcg/kg IV bolus 10 minutes after the first bolus in persons undergoing PCI. Administer concomitantly with aspirin and heparin. During medical management, dose heparin to maintain a target aPTT of 50 to 70 seconds. If weight 70 kg or more, administer heparin 5,000 units IV bolus followed by 1,000 units/hour continuous IV infusion. If weight less than 70 kg, administer heparin 60 unit/kg IV bolus followed by 12 units/kg/hour continuous IV infusion. During PCI, dose heparin to maintain a target ACT of 200 to 300 seconds. If heparin is initiated prior to PCI, additional heparin boluses may be required. Do not administer heparin after PCI. Discontinue eptifibatide in persons who require thrombolytic therapy. Discontinue eptifibatide at least 2 to 4 hours prior to CABG surgery. Guidelines recommend a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor at the time of PCI for persons with UA and NSTEMI with intermediate/high-risk features (e.g., positive troponin) treated with early invasive strategy and dual antiplatelet therapy. This regimen is also recommended at the time of PCI for UA/NSTEMI with high-risk features (e.g., elevated troponin) who are receiving heparin, not treated with bivalirudin, not adequately pretreated with ticagrelor, and regardless of clopidogrel pretreatment.
    Heading
    For the treatment of non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes, including acute myocardial infarction, NSTEMI and unstable angina, managed medically or with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        180 mcg/kg (Max: 22.6 mg) IV bolus, followed by 2 mcg/kg/minute (Max: 15 mg/hour) continuous IV infusion until hospital discharge or 18 to 24 hours after PCI, whichever is earlier. Administer an additional 180 mcg/kg IV bolus 10 minutes after the first bolus. A minimum of 12 hours of infusion is recommended. Administer concomitantly with aspirin and heparin. Dose heparin to maintain a target ACT of 200 to 300 seconds. Administer heparin 60 units/kg IV bolus initially in patients not treated with heparin within 6 hours prior to PCI; additional boluses may be administered during PCI to maintain target ACT. Do not administer heparin after PCI. Discontinue eptifibatide in patients who require thrombolytic therapy. Discontinue eptifibatide at least 2 to 4 hours prior to CABG surgery. Guidelines recommend the adjunctive use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors at the time of primary PCI in select patients with STEMI (i.e., large thrombus burden or inadequate P2Y12 receptor antagonist loading) who are receiving heparin and treated with or without clopidogrel or stenting.
    Heading
    For the treatment acute myocardial infarction, STEMI managed with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Inhibition of platelet aggregation by eptifibatide increases the risk of bleeding, especially in patients with predisposing conditions. Eptifibatide is contraindicated in patients with any of the following: any coagulopathy or bleeding diathesis, severe uncontrolled hypertension (SBP > 200 mmHg or DBP > 110 mmHg), recent (within 6 weeks) major surgery or trauma, history of stroke within 30 days or any history of hemorrhagic stroke, or any evidence of active abnormal bleeding within the previous 30 days. If serious bleeding occurs that cannot be controlled with pressure, eptifibatide and any concomitant heparin should be discontinued. The risk of bleeding with eptifibatide in the setting of PCI can be reduced if the following precautions are taken: avoidance of venous sheath placement, discontinuation of heparin immediately upon completion of the procedure, early femoral arterial sheath removal (i.e., within 6 hours of the intervention if the aPTT = 2 mg/dl, if estimated CrCl is not available), the dose of eptifibatide should be reduced (see Dosage, Patients with renal impairment). The total drug clearance of eptifibatide is reduced by 50% in patients with CrCl < 50 ml/min (see Pharmacokinetics).
 
Elderly patients may be at increased risk for bleeding while receiving eptifibatide. In the PURSUIT and IMPACT II trials, patients up to 94 years of age were enrolled. The incidence of bleeding was higher in the elderly in both placebo and eptifibatide groups, and the incremental risk of eptifibatide-associated bleeding was greater in the older patients. No dose adjustment was made for elderly patients, but patients over 75 years of age who weighed < 50 kg were not enrolled in the PURSUIT study because of concern about a potential increased bleeding risk.
 
Eptifibatide should not be used in patients with preexisting thrombocytopenia (i.e., platelet count < 100,000/mm3). If a patient experiences a confirmed decrease in platelet count to < 100,000/mm3 during eptifibatide therapy, eptifibatide and any concomitant heparin should be discontinued. Platelet transfusions should be considered if the platelet count drops below 50,000 cells/mm3.
 
Eptifibatide is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category B. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Teratology studies performed in pregnant rats and rabbits (about 4 times the recommended maximum human dose of eptifibatide on a BSA basis) revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus. However, it is recommended that eptifibatide not be used during pregnancy unless clearly needed.
 
It is not known if eptifibatide is excreted in human milk. Caution should be used when administering eptifibatide to a woman who is breast-feeding.
 
The safety and effectiveness of eptifibatide have not been established in children.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    arterial puncture, bleeding, bleeding disorder, hypertension, intramuscular injections, major surgery, nasogastric tube, nasotracheal intubation, stroke, urinary catheter, venipuncture
    General Information
    Eptifibatide is contraindicated in individuals with active abnormal bleeding within the previous 30 days, bleeding disorder, severe uncontrolled hypertension (blood pressure more than 200/110 mmHg) not adequately controlled by antihypertensive therapy, major surgery within the previous 6 weeks, and history of stroke within 30 days or any history of hemorrhagic stroke. Minimize the use of arterial puncture and venipuncture, intramuscular injections, and the use of a urinary catheter, nasotracheal intubation, or nasogastric tube. Avoid non-compressible sites (e.g., subclavian or jugular veins) when obtaining intravenous access.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    dialysis, renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Eptifibatide is contraindicated in dialysis-dependent individuals; the safety and efficacy of eptifibatide in dialysis-dependent individuals has not been established. Drug clearance is decreased and plasma concentrations are doubled in individuals with renal impairment or renal failure (CrCl less than 50 mL/minute); dosage reduction of the continuous infusion is required.
    Headline
    thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Monitor platelet counts closely in individuals with thrombocytopenia or low platelet counts. There has been no clinical experience with eptifibatide initiated in individuals with a platelet count less than 100,000/mm3.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Bleeding complications were higher in geriatric subjects in both eptifibatide and placebo groups in clinical trials, and the incremental risk of eptifibatide-associated bleeding was greater in older adults. No dose adjustment was made for older adults, but subjects older than 75 years had to weigh at least 50 kg to be enrolled in some trials.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of eptifibatide during human pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Myocardial infarction is a medical emergency which can be fatal to the pregnant individual and fetus if left untreated; do not withhold eptifibatide therapy for a pregnant individual because of potential concerns regarding the effects to the fetus. Eptifibatide use in pregnancy has been described in limited case reports. A 31-year-old pregnant individual at 37 weeks gestation received eptifibatide for 7 days for the peripartum management of her dual antiplatelet therapy after bare metal stent insertion for acute myocardial infarction at 32 weeks gestation. Eptifibatide was discontinued at labor induction, and epidural anesthesia was initiated 12 hours after stopping eptifibatide. The individual had an uneventful vaginal delivery after 12 hours of neuraxial analgesia, and the estimated blood loss was 500 mL. In another case, eptifibatide was used in a 44-year-old pregnant individual at 8 weeks gestation with intracoronary stent placement for acute myocardial infarction. The individual received eptifibatide for 24 hours before being transitioned to clopidogrel and aspirin. At 36 weeks gestation, the individual delivered a healthy infant via uneventful caesarean section. In animal reproduction studies, there was no evidence of adverse developmental effects when eptifibatide was administered to pregnant rats and rabbits at approximately 4 times the recommended maximum daily human dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use eptifibatide with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of eptifibatide in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Eptifibatide is a peptide, and is likely destroyed in the child's gastrointestinal tract and not absorbed orally.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of eptifibatide during human pregnancy are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. Myocardial infarction is a medical emergency which can be fatal to the pregnant individual and fetus if left untreated; do not withhold eptifibatide therapy for a pregnant individual because of potential concerns regarding the effects to the fetus. Eptifibatide use in pregnancy has been described in limited case reports. A 31-year-old pregnant individual at 37 weeks gestation received eptifibatide for 7 days for the peripartum management of her dual antiplatelet therapy after bare metal stent insertion for acute myocardial infarction at 32 weeks gestation. Eptifibatide was discontinued at labor induction, and epidural anesthesia was initiated 12 hours after stopping eptifibatide. The individual had an uneventful vaginal delivery after 12 hours of neuraxial analgesia, and the estimated blood loss was 500 mL. In another case, eptifibatide was used in a 44-year-old pregnant individual at 8 weeks gestation with intracoronary stent placement for acute myocardial infarction. The individual received eptifibatide for 24 hours before being transitioned to clopidogrel and aspirin. At 36 weeks gestation, the individual delivered a healthy infant via uneventful caesarean section. In animal reproduction studies, there was no evidence of adverse developmental effects when eptifibatide was administered to pregnant rats and rabbits at approximately 4 times the recommended maximum daily human dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use eptifibatide with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of eptifibatide in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. Eptifibatide is a peptide, and is likely destroyed in the child's gastrointestinal tract and not absorbed orally.

Interactions
Abrocitinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use with platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors is contraindicated during the first 3 months of abrocitinib therapy due to an increased risk of bleeding with thrombocytopenia.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ado-Trastuzumab emtansine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of platelet inhibitors with ado-trastuzumab emtansine is necessary due to reports of severe and sometimes fatal hemorrhage, including intracranial bleeding, with ado-trastuzumab emtansine therapy. Consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary. While some patients who experienced bleeding during ado-trastuzumab therapy were also receiving anticoagulation therapy, others had no known additional risk factors.
ADP receptor antagonists: (Moderate) Concomitant use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (i.e., abciximab, eptifibatide, or tirofiban) with an ADP receptor antagonist (i.e., clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine) may increase the risk for bleeding.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Anagrelide: (Moderate) Although anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation at high doses, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if anagrelide is given in combination with other agents that effect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Concomitant use of eptifibatide and other agents that may affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Antithymocyte Globulin: (Moderate) An increased risk of bleeding may occur when platelet inhibitors are used with agents that cause clinically significant thrombocytopenia, such as antithymocyte globulin. Platelet inhibitors should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia following the administration of antithymocyte globulin or other drugs that cause significant thrombocytopenia due to the increased risk of bleeding.
Apixaban: (Major) The concomitant use of apixaban and platelet inhibitors (e.g, aspirin) may increase the risk of bleeding. In the ARISTOTLE trial (comparative trial of apixaban and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation), concomitant use of aspirin increased the bleeding risk of apixaban from 1.8%/year to 3.4%/year. If given concomitantly, patients should be educated about the signs and symptoms of bleeding and be instructed to report them immediately or go to an emergency room.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, ticlopidine, etc.) in combination with argatroban.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Because dipyridamole is a platelet inhibitor, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if dipyridamole is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban. (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) When used as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), bivalirudin is intended for use with aspirin (300 to 325 mg/day PO) and has been studied only in patients receiving concomitant aspirin. Generally, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (other than aspirin). In clinical trials in patients undergoing PTCA, patients receiving bivalirudin with heparin, warfarin, or thrombolytics had increased risks of major bleeding events compared to those receiving bivalirudin alone. According to the manufacturer, the safety and effectiveness of bivalirudin have not been established when used in conjunction with platelet inhibitors other than aspirin. However, bivalirudin has been safely used as an alternative to heparin in combination with provisional use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors during angioplasty (REPLACE-2). In addition, two major clinical trials have evaluated the use of bivalirudin in patients receiving streptokinase following acute myocardial infarction (HERO-1, HERO-2). Based on the these trials, bivalirudin may be considered an alternative to heparin therapy for use in combination with streptokinase for ST-elevation MI. Bivalirudin has not been sufficiently studied in combination with other more specific thrombolytics.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Unless contraindicated, aspirin is used in combination with eptifibatide. However, both drugs are associated with bleeding. Monitor for bleeding during concomitant therapy.
Caplacizumab: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of caplacizumab and platelet inhibitors when possible. Assess and monitor closely for bleeding if use together is necessary. Interrupt use of caplacizumab if clinically significant bleeding occurs.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Cilostazol: (Moderate) Because cilostazol is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if cilostazol is given with other agent that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Cladribine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Clopidogrel: (Moderate) Concomitant use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (i.e., abciximab, eptifibatide, or tirofiban) with an ADP receptor antagonist (i.e., clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine) may increase the risk for bleeding.
Collagenase: (Moderate) Cautious use of injectable collagenase by patients taking platelet inhibitors is advised. The efficacy and safety of administering injectable collagenase to a patient taking a platelet inhibitor within 7 days before the injection are unknown. Receipt of injectable collagenase may cause an ecchymosis or bleeding at the injection site.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Concomitant use of eptifibatide and other agents that may affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of eptifibatide and other agents that may affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic and possible platelet inhibiting effects of dasatinib, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Defibrotide: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of defibrotide with antithrombotic agents like platelet inhibitors is contraindicated. The pharmacodynamic activity and risk of hemorrhage with antithrombotic agents are increased if coadministered with defibrotide. If therapy with defibrotide is necessary, discontinue antithrombotic agents prior to initiation of defibrotide therapy. Consider delaying the onset of defibrotide treatment until the effects of the antithrombotic agent have abated.
Deoxycholic Acid: (Moderate) Use deoxycholic acid with caution in patients receiving platelet inhibitors. Excessive bruising or bleeding may occur in and around the treatment area.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as desvenlafaxine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Diflunisal: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Because dipyridamole is a platelet inhibitor, there is a potential additive risk for bleeding if dipyridamole is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as duloxetine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Edoxaban: (Major) Coadministration of edoxaban and platelet inhibitors should be avoided due to an increased risk of bleeding during concurrent use. Occasionally, short-term coadministration may be necessary in patients transitioning to and from edoxaban. Long-term coadminstration is not recommended. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss in patients on concomitant therapy.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of eptifibatide and other agents that may affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Etodolac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Fenoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Fish Oil, Omega-3 Fatty Acids (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with other platelet inhibitors. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Fludarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Flurbiprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) Concomitant use of eptifibatide and other agents that may affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Garlic, Allium sativum: (Moderate) Use together with caution. Garlic produces clinically significant antiplatelet effects, and a risk for bleeding may occur if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with garlic.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Moderate) Ginger inhibits thromboxane synthetase, a platelet aggregation inducer, and is a prostacyclin agonist so additive bleeding may occur if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with ginger, zingiber officinale.
Ginkgo, Ginkgo biloba: (Moderate) Monitor for signs or symptoms of bleeding with coadministration of ginkgo biloba and platelet inhibitors as an increased bleeding risk may occur. Although data are mixed, ginkgo biloba is reported to inhibit platelet aggregation and several case reports describe bleeding complications with ginkgo biloba, with or without concomitant drug therapy.
Green Tea: (Moderate) Green tea has demonstrated antiplatelet and fibrinolytic actions in animals. It is possible that the use of green tea may increase the risk of bleeding if co administered with aspirin. Caution and careful monitoring of clinical and/or laboratory parameters are warranted with this combination.
Heparin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of eptifibatide and other agents that may affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding. In addition, large doses of salicylates (>= 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. In clinical trials with eptifibatide, aspirin and heparin were administered concomitantly. Eptifibatide has been administered with a thrombolytic agent in a small number of patients. In the IMPACT II study, 15 patients received a thrombolytic agent with the 135/0.5 dosing regimen, 2 of whom experienced a major bleed. In the PURSUIT study, 40 patients who received eptifibatide (180 mcg/kg bolus, then 2 mcg/kg/min) also received a thrombolytic agent, 10 of whom experienced a major bleed. In another acute MI study (n=181), eptifibatide (180 mcg/kg bolus, then up to 2 mcg/kg/min for up to 72 hours) was administered concomitantly with streptokinase (1.5 mU over 60 min). At the highest studied infusion rates (1.3 to 2 mcg/kg/min), eptifibatide was associated with an increase in the incidence of bleeding and transfusions compared to the incidence seen with streptokinase alone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) During and after therapy, avoid the concomitant use of Yttrium (Y)-90 ibrutumomab tiuxetan with drugs that interfere with platelet function such as platelet inhibitors; the risk of bleeding may be increased. If coadministration with platelet inhibitors is necessary, monitor platelet counts more frequently for evidence of thrombocytopenia.
Ibrutinib: (Moderate) The concomitant use of ibrutinib and antiplatelet agents such as eptifibatide may increase the risk of bleeding; monitor patients for signs of bleeding. Severe bleeding events have occurred with ibrutinib therapy including intracranial hemorrhage, GI bleeding, hematuria, and post procedural hemorrhage; some events were fatal. The mechanism for bleeding with ibrutinib therapy is not well understood.
Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Icosapent ethyl: (Moderate) Icosapent ethyl is an ethyl ester of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Because omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when icosapent ethyl is used concurrently with anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors, or thrombolytic agents. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased, but some studies that combined these agents did not produce clinically significant bleeding events. In one placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded, parallel study, patients receiving stable, chronic warfarin therapy were administered various doses of fish oil supplements to determine the effect on INR determinations. Patients were randomized to receive a 4-week treatment period of either placebo or 3 or 6 grams of fish oil daily. Patients were followed on a twice-weekly basis for INR determinations and adverse reactions. There was no statistically significant difference in INRs between the placebo or treatment period within each group. There was also no difference in INRs found between groups. One episode of ecchymosis was reported, but no major bleeding episodes occurred. The authors concluded that fish oil supplementation in doses of 36 grams per day does not have a statistically significant effect on the INR of patients receiving chronic warfarin therapy. However, an increase in INR from 2.8 to 4.3 in a patient stable on warfarin therapy has been reported when increasing the dose of fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids from 1 gram/day to 2 grams/day. The INR decreased once the patient decreased her dose of fish oil to 1 gram/day. This implies that a dose-related effect of fish oil on warfarin may be possible. Patients receiving warfarin that initiate concomitant icosapent ethyl therapy should have their INR monitored more closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted accordingly.
Iloprost: (Moderate) When used concurrently with platelet inhibitors, inhaled iloprost may increase the risk of bleeding.
Indomethacin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors due to the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsions: (Moderate) Because fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids inhibit platelet aggregation, caution is advised when fish oils are used concurrently with other platelet inhibitors. Theoretically, the risk of bleeding may be increased.
Ketoprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Ketorolac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of levomilnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mefenamic Acid: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Meloxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Methoxsalen: (Minor) Agents that affect platelet function, such as platelet inhibitors, could decrease the efficacy of methoxsalen when used during photodynamic therapy.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding during coadministration of milnacipran and platelet inhibitors. Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation; therefore, concomitant use may increase the risk of bleeding.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Platelet Inhibitors inhibit platelet aggregation and should be used cautiously in patients with thrombocytopenia, as mycophenolate can also cause thrombocytopenia.
Nabumetone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Nelarabine: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of nelarabine, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Obinutuzumab: (Moderate) Fatal hemorrhagic events have been reported in patients treated with obinutuzumab; all events occured during cycle 1. Monitor all patients for thrombocytopenia and bleeding, and consider withholding concomitant medications which may increase bleeding risk (i.e., anticoagulants, platelet inhibitors), especially during the first cycle.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Oxaprozin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of eptifibatide and other agents that may affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
Pentostatin: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Pentoxifylline: (Moderate) A potential additive risk for bleeding exists if platelet inhibitors are given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as pentoxifylline.
Piroxicam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (Dietary Supplements): (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasterone, Dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA (FDA-approved): (Moderate) Prasterone is contraindicated for use in patients with active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Prasterone is also contraindicated in patients with active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Thus, patients receiving anticoagulation due to a history of these conditions are not candidates for prasterone treatment. DHEA is converted to androgens and estrogens within the human body and thus may affect hemostasis via androgenic or estrogenic effects. Estrogens increase the production of clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X. Androgens, such as testosterone, increase the synthesis of several anticoagulant and fibrinolytic proteins. Because of the potential effects on coagulation, patients receiving prasterone or DHEA concurrently with preventative anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or heparin) or other platelet inhibitors, including aspirin, ASA should be monitored for side effects or the need for dosage adjustments.
Prasugrel: (Moderate) Concomitant use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (i.e., abciximab, eptifibatide, or tirofiban) with an ADP receptor antagonist (i.e., clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine) may increase the risk for bleeding.
Purine analogs: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of platelet inhibitors such as eptifibatide with rivaroxaban unless the benefit outweighs the risk of increased bleeding. An increase in bleeding time to 45 minutes was observed in 2 drug interaction studies where another platelet inhibitor and rivaroxaban (15 mg single dose) were coadministered in healthy subjects. In the first study, the increase in bleeding time to 45 minutes was observed in approximately 45% of patients. Approximately 30% of patients in the second study had the event. The change in bleeding time was approximately twice the maximum increase seen with either drug alone. No change in the pharmacokinetic parameters of either drug were noted.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Selumetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of platelet inhibitors and selumetinib oral capsules. Selumetinib capsules contain vitamin E which may inhibit platelet aggregation and increase the risk for bleeding. Vitamin E content varies by capsule: each 10 mg capsule contains 32 mg alpha-tocopherol, each 25 mg capsule contains 36 mg alpha-tocopherol. Tolerable Upper Intake Levels of vitamin E vary by age and range from 200 to 1,000 mg alpha-tocopherol per day.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SSRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Sulindac: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Moderate) Due to the thrombocytopenic effects of purine analogs, an additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving concomitant platelet inhibitors.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and antiplatelet agents is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of antiplatelet therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Ticagrelor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (i.e., abciximab, eptifibatide, or tirofiban) with an ADP receptor antagonist (i.e., clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, or ticlopidine) may increase the risk for bleeding.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Caution should be used when administering tipranavir to patients receiving platelet inhibitors. In clinical trials, there have been reports of intracranial bleeding, including fatalities, in HIV infected patients receiving tipranavir as part of combination antiretroviral therapy. In many of these reports, the patients had other medical conditions (CNS lesions, head trauma, recent neurosurgery, coagulopathy, hypertension, or alcoholism/alcohol abuse) or were receiving concomitant medications, including platelet inhibitors, that may have caused or contributed to these events.
Tolmetin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant platelet inhibitor and chronic nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use. Concomitant use increases the risk of bleeding.
traZODone: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by trazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking trazodone concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding during concomitant use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as venlafaxine, and medications that interfere with hemostasis, such as eptifibatide. SNRIs affect platelet activation and may interfere with clot formation increasing the risk for bleeding.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with platelet inhibitors is necessary due to the risk of decreased verteporfin efficacy. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug. Once activated, local damage to neovascular endothelium results in a release of procoagulant and vasoactive factors resulting in platelet aggregation, fibrin clot formation, and vasoconstriction. Concomitant use of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation could decrease the efficacy of verteporfin therapy.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
Vorapaxar: (Moderate) Because vorapaxar inhibits platelet aggregation, a potential additive risk for bleeding exists if vorapaxar is given in combination with other agents that affect hemostasis such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with an antiplatelet medication and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of eptifibatide and other agents that may affect hemostasis, such as anticoagulants, may be associated with an increased risk of bleeding.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Bleeding, secondary to drug-induced platelet dysfunction, is the most common adverse event associated with use of eptifibatide. In phase III trials, major bleeding was defined as intracranial hemorrhage or a decrease in Hgb > 5 g/dL. Minor bleeding included spontaneous gross hematuria, spontaneous hematemesis, observed blood loss with a Hgb decrease of more than 3 g/dL, or a decrease in Hgb of at least 4 g/dL without an identified bleeding site. In the PURSUIT trial (eptifibatide 180 mcg/kg IV, followed by 1.3—2 mcg/kg/min), major bleeding occurred in 10.5—10.8% of eptifibatide-treated patients and in 9.3% of placebo-treated patients; minor bleeding occurred in 10.5—13.1% and 7.6% of patients, respectively. In the IMPACT II trial (eptifibatide 135 mcg/kg IV, followed by 0.5—0.75 mcg/kg/min in patients undergoing PCI), major bleeding occurred with a similar frequency in both eptifibatide and placebo groups (4.5—4.7%). Minor bleeding occurred in 11.7—14.2% of eptifibatide-treated patients and 9.3% of placebo-treated patients. In both studies, the overall incidence of major bleeding was strongly related to the incidence of CABG surgery. The excess bleeding seen with eptifibatide, however, was seen only among the patients who did not undergo CABG. The greatest increase in major bleeding in eptifibatide-treated patients compared to placebo occurred at the femoral artery access site in both studies. Oropharyngeal (primarily gingival), genitourinary, gastrointestinal (GI bleeding), and retroperitoneal bleeding were also seen more commonly in eptifibatide-treated patients compared to placebo. In the PURSUIT study, the risk of major bleeding with eptifibatide increased inversely with patient weight. This relationship was most apparent in patients weighing = 50% reduction from baseline) and the incidence of platelet transfusions were similar between patients treated with eptifibatide and placebo. In addition, acute profound thrombocytopenia has been reported during post-marketing experience.Anaphylactic shock occurs rarely in patients receiving eptifibatide. In one study, anaphylactoid reactions were a reason for drug discontinuation in 3 patients (0.05%) who received eptifibatide and in none of the patients who received placebo; however, the overall incidence of anaphylaxis was similar among the groups (0.15—0.16%). The potential for development of antibodies to eptifibatide has been studied in 433 patients. Eptifibatide was non-antigenic in 412 patients receiving a single dose of eptifibatide (135 mcg/kg bolus followed by a continuous infusion of either 0.5 mcg/kg/min or 0.75 mcg/kg/min), and in 21 patients to whom eptifibatide (135 mcg/kg bolus followed by a continuous infusion of 0.75 mcg/kg/min) was administered twice, 28 days apart. In both cases, plasma for antibody detection was collected approximately 30 days after each dose. The development of antibodies to eptifibatide at higher doses has not been established. (manufacturer product literature)In the PURSUIT trial, serious non-bleeding events occurred in 19% of eptifibatide-treated and 19% of placebo-treated patients. The only serious non-bleeding adverse event that occurred at a rate of at least 1% and was more common with eptifibatide than placebo (7% vs 6%) was hypotension. In the IMPACT II study, serious non-bleeding events were uncommon and similar in incidence between eptifibatide- and placebo-treated patients.No long-term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of eptifibatide. Eptifibatide was not genotoxic in short-term in vitro tests (e.g., Ames test). In addition, eptifibatide had no effect on fertility or reproductive performance of male or female rats when given at a dose about 4 times the recommended maximum daily human dose on a BSA basis.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    bleeding, GI bleeding, hematemesis, hematuria, retroperitoneal bleeding
    General Information
    Bleeding is the most common complication associated with eptifibatide. Major bleeding, defined as intracranial hemorrhage or a decrease in hemoglobin (Hgb) more than 5 g/dL, occurred in 1.3% to 10.8% in eptifibatide-treated subjects and 0.4% to 9.3% of subjects given placebo in clinical trials. Minor bleeding, including spontaneous gross hematuria, spontaneous hematemesis, and observed blood loss with a Hgb decrease of 3 to 4.9 g/dL, occurred in 3% to 13.1% in eptifibatide-treated subjects and 2% to 7.6% of subjects given placebo. Overall incidence of major bleeding was greater in subjects undergoing CABG surgery. Risk of bleeding increased as subject weight decreased. Most major bleeding associated with eptifibatide has been at the arterial access site for cardiac catheterization or from the gastrointestinal (GI bleeding) or genitourinary tract; oropharyngeal/gingival and retroperitoneal bleeding were also reported. In subjects undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), eptifibatide treatment is associated with an increase in major and minor bleeding at the site of arterial sheath placement. Heparin use is discouraged after the PCI procedure. Early sheath removal is encouraged while eptifibatide is being infused. Before sheath removal, ensure heparin has been discontinued for 3 to 4 hours and aPTT is less than 45 seconds or ACT is less than 150 seconds. Ensure both heparin and eptifibatide are discontinued and sheath hemostasis is achieved at least 2 to 4 hours before hospital discharge. Cerebral, gastrointestinal, and pulmonary hemorrhage have been reported with eptifibatide in postmarketing. Fatal bleeding has been reported. Minimize the use of arterial and venous punctures, intramuscular injections, and the use of urinary catheters, nasotracheal intubation, and nasogastric tubes. When obtaining intravenous access, avoid non-compressible sites (e.g., subclavian or jugular veins). Discontinue eptifibatide and heparin immediately if bleeding at access site cannot be controlled with pressure.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bleeding
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hematemesis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      retroperitoneal bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hematuria
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    intracranial bleeding, stroke
    General Information
    The overall incidence of stroke was 0.5% to 0.7% for eptifibatide-treated subjects and 0.7% to 0.8% for subjects given placebo in clinical trials. Intracranial bleeding was rare. A single case of cerebral infarction was reported. Cerebral bleeding has been reported with eptifibatide in postmarketing.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    There have been reports of acute, profound thrombocytopenia (non-immune and immune-mediated) with eptifibatide. Discontinue eptifibatide and concomitant heparin in the event of profound thrombocytopenia or a confirmed platelet decrease to less than 100,000/mm3. Monitor serial platelet counts, assess for the presence of drug-dependent antibodies, and treat as appropriate. In the PURSUIT and IMPACT II studies, the incidence of thrombocytopenia (platelet count less than 100,000/mm3 or 50% or more reduction from baseline) and the incidence of platelet transfusions were similar between patients treated with eptifibatide and placebo. In the ESPRIT study, the incidence of thrombocytopenia was 1.2% in the eptifibatide group and 0.6% in the placebo group. Acute profound thrombocytopenia and immune-mediated thrombocytopenia have also been reported during postmarketing experience with eptifibatide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypotension
    General Information
    Hypotension (7%) was the only serious non-bleeding adverse reaction that occurred at a rate of at least 1% and was more common with eptifibatide than placebo (6%) during clinical trials.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    antibody formation
    General Information
    The potential for antibody formation to eptifibatide has been studied in 433 patients. Eptifibatide was non-antigenic in 412 patients receiving a single dose (135 mcg/kg bolus followed by an infusion of either 0.5 mcg/kg/minute or 0.75 mcg/kg/minute) and in 21 patients who received 2 doses (135 mcg/kg bolus followed by a continuous infusion of 0.75 mcg/kg/minute) 28 days apart. In both cases, plasma for antibody detection was collected approximately 30 days after each dose. The development of antibodies at higher doses has not been established. There have been reports of immune-mediated thrombocytopenia with postmarketing experience. IgG antibodies that react with the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa complex were identified in the presence of eptifibatide and in eptifibatide-naive patients. These findings suggest that acute thrombocytopenia can develop as a result of naturally occurring drug-dependent antibodies or those induced by prior exposure to eptifibatide. Similar antibodies were noted with other glycoprotein IIb/IIIa agents.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      antibody formation
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Eptifibatide is an intravenous platelet aggregation inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), including intracoronary stenting, and acute coronary syndromes managed medically or with PCI. Eptifibatide is a cyclic peptide platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor. Eptifibatide contains 6 amino acids and a mercaptopropionyl residue. Cyclic peptides are more resistant to degradation than linear peptides, but still have short half-lives because they are broken down in the body. Eptifibatide has a shorter half-life than abciximab, and its effects on circulating platelets wear off more quickly. Bleeding and hypotension are the most common adverse reactions reported with eptifibatide use. Preclinical and clinical studies indicate that eptifibatide is not immunogenic, most likely because of its low molecular weight.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Eptifibatide is a competitive inhibitor of glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa preventing the binding of fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor (vWF), and other adhesive ligands to the GP IIb/IIIa receptor on activated platelets. "Integrins", which are found on virtually all cell types, are a family of adhesion molecules that mediate many physiologic responses. Unlike many of the other integrins, GP IIb/IIIa is platelet specific and is also the most abundant receptor found on activated platelets, with about 50,000 copies/cell. Fibrinogen is the principal ligand to bind to the GP IIb/IIIa receptor. The binding of fibrinogen and, to a lesser extent other ligands such as vWF, to the GP IIb/IIIa receptor results in cross-linking between platelets and is the final common pathway of platelet aggregation, which ultimately leads to thrombus formation. Unlike abciximab and tirofiban, which bind to GP IIb/IIIa via an arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) sequence, eptifibatide contains the lysine-glycine-aspartic acid (KGD) peptide sequence that is thought to create greater specificity for the GP IIb/IIIa receptor. Unlike abciximab, eptifibatide does not bind to the vitronectin receptor. The clinical relevance of binding to vitronectin is not fully understood. Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors can prevent platelet aggregation regardless of the agonist involved; thus, eptifibatide will block thrombin-induced platelet aggregation while aspirin will not. When administered alone, eptifibatide has no effect on PT or aPTT.

Pharmacokinetics
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Eptifibatide clearance is reduced approximately 50% and steady-state plasma concentrations are doubled in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 50 mL/minute).
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Elderly patients with coronary artery disease demonstrate lower total body clearance and higher plasma concentrations when given the same eptifibatide dose as younger patients.
  Text
  Eptifibatide is administered intravenously. The pharmacokinetics of eptifibatide are linear and dose-proportional for bolus doses of 90 to 250 mcg/kg and infusion rates of 0.5 to 3 mcg/kg/minute. About 25% of eptifibatide is bound to plasma protein. No major metabolites of eptifibatide have been detected in human plasma. In healthy subjects, renal clearance accounts for about 50% of total body clearance, with the majority of drug excreted in the urine as eptifibatide, deaminated eptifibatide, and other, more polar metabolites. Clearance in patients with coronary artery disease is 55 mL/kg/hour. The elimination half-life of eptifibatide is about 2.5 hours.
 
Eptifibatide inhibits ex vivo platelet aggregation in a dose- and concentration-dependent manner. Inhibition of platelet aggregation is 84% at 15 minutes after an eptifibatide 180 mcg/kg IV bolus (followed by a 2 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion). Inhibition of platelet aggregation is more than 90% at steady-state and less than 50% at hours after infusion discontinuation. At 6 hours after discontinuation, bleeding time prolongation is 1.4 times baseline.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      IV bolus
Withdraw the bolus dose from the 10 mL vial into a syringe.
Administer undiluted by IV push.
 
Continuous IV infusion
Initiate the continuous infusion immediately after the bolus dose.
When using an IV infusion pump, administer eptifibatide undiluted directly from the 100mL vial. Spike the vial with a vented infusion set.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Storage: Vials may be stored at controlled room temperature for up to 2 months. Protect from light.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    180 mcg/kg (Max: 22.6 mg) IV bolus and 2 mcg/kg/minute (Max: 15 mg/hour) continuous IV infusion.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    180 mcg/kg (Max: 22.6 mg) IV bolus and 2 mcg/kg/minute (Max: 15 mg/hour) continuous IV infusion.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustment in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl less than 50 mL/minute: Reduce the continuous infusion to 1 mcg/kg/minute (Max: 7.5 mg/hour) IV.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis
Eptifibatide is contraindicated in patients dependent on renal dialysis.
