=== Eletriptan (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 710)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Eletriptan is a serotonin-receptor 1B and 1D agonist (triptan) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 80 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): bowel ischemia, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, medication overuse headache, seizures, serotonin syndrome, withdrawal, chest pain (unspecified), chest pressure syndrome, coronary vasospasm, hypertension, myocardial infarction, peripheral vasoconstriction, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Eletriptan is contraindicated in any patient with a known hypersensitivity to eletriptan or any of its inactive ingredients. Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with basilar/hemiplegic migraine because safety and efficacy have not been established.

Brand Names
  - Relpax

Dosage Forms
  - Eletriptan Hydrobromide 20mg Oral tablet
  - Eletriptan Hydrobromide 40mg Oral tablet
  - Relpax 20mg Tablet
  - Relpax 40mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        20 or 40 mg PO as a single dose. May repeat dose once after at least 2 hours after first dose if the headache has not resolved or returns after transient improvement. Max: 80 mg/day. The safety of treating an average of more than 3 headaches/30 days has not been evaluated. Guidelines classify eletriptan as having established efficacy for the treatment of acute migraine.
    Heading
    For the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Eletriptan is contraindicated in any patient with a known hypersensitivity to eletriptan or any of its inactive ingredients.
 
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with basilar/hemiplegic migraine because safety and efficacy have not been established. Additionally, safety and effectiveness have not been established for cluster headaches. Eletriptan is not intended for use in migraine prophylaxis.
 
Rare, but serious adverse cardiac effects, including heart attacks, life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm, and death have been reported within a few hours of receiving 5-HT1 agonists. Many of these patients had concurrent cardiovascular risk factors; therefore, it is difficult to assess causality. Eletriptan and other 5-HT agonists may cause coronary vasospasm, and therefore are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD), angina pectoris, vasospastic angina such as Prinzmetal's variant angina, arteriosclerosis, silent myocardial ischemia, acute myocardial infarction, history of myocardial infarction, or other significant cardiac disease. Patients with CAD risk factors (e.g., high blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, obesity, tobacco smoking, strong family history, female with surgical or physiological menopause, or male > 40 years old) should not be given eletriptan unless a cardiac evaluation determines they are reasonably free of CAD, myocardial ischemia or other significant cardiac disease. Patients who are long-term users of eletriptan and who have or acquire risk factors predictive of CAD should undergo periodic cardiac evaluation. For patients with risk factors predictive of CAD who are determined to have a satisfactory cardiac evaluation, the first dose of eletriptan should be given in a controlled setting such as a clinic or physician's office. ECG monitoring is strongly encouraged due to the possibility of asymptomatic cardiac ischemia during the time immediately following eletriptan administration in patients with risk factors. In addition, patients with cardiac arrhythmias should not receive eletriptan as rhythm disturbances have been reported with the use of 5-HT agonists. Further, patients with symptomatic Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or cardiac arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders should not receive eletriptan because serious cardiac events have been reported within a few hours of receiving other 5-HT1 agonists. Additionally, inappropriate concomitant use of eletriptan and sumatriptan may have contributed to a fatal myocardial infarction in a patient with known cardiovascular risk factors; however, causality cannot be definitively determined.
 
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Small increases in blood pressure have occurred during eletriptan administration. Other 5-HT1 agonists have produced significant increases in blood pressure in patients with and without a history of hypertension. Until more is known about the effect of eletriptan on blood pressure, it should be used cautiously in patients with elevated blood pressure.
 
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with peripheral vascular disease including ischemic bowel disease (ischemic colitis) and Raynaud's disease. Peripheral vascular ischemia and colonic ischemia with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea have been reported with 5-HT1 agonists.
 
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with cerebrovascular disease (i.e., stroke or transient ischemic attacks), and should not be used in the presence of intracranial bleeding due to the vasospastic effects of 5-HT agonists. While stroke, cerebral hemorrhage, and related fatalities have been reported after the administration of 5-HT1 agonists, these events may have been present prior to administration, and the drug was mistakenly given in response to the cerebrovascular symptoms. However, patients with migraines may be at an increased risk for cerebrovascular events (e.g. stroke, hemorrhage).
 
Dizziness and/or drowsiness have occurred in 1—6% of patients receiving eletriptan. Therefore, patients should be cautioned about engaging in tasks requiring mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery until they know how the drug will affect their cognition.
 
Eletriptan is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic disease or severe hepatic impairment. Eletriptan is converted to an active metabolite through N-demethylation. A single patient with hepatic cirrhosis received eletriptan 80 mg and experienced a blood pressure of 220/96 mmHg five hours after dosing that persisted for seven hours.
 
The concurrent use of certain medications are contraindicated with eletriptan. Eletriptan should not be used within at least 72 hours of using any potent CYP3A4 inhibitor; these drugs can significantly impair the elimination of eletriptan (see Drug Interactions). Eletriptan should not be used within 24 hours of any ergot or ergot-like medications, or other 5-HT1 agonists (see Drug Interactions).
 
Safety and effectiveness of eletriptan therapy in elderly patients has not been established. The elderly are more likely to have decreased hepatic function, more pronounced blood pressure increases, and are at a higher risk for coronary artery disease (CAD).
 
Eletriptan is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C. There are no studies of eletriptan use in pregnant women. Eletriptan should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit of therapy outweighs the potential risk to the fetus.
 
Eletriptan is excreted into human breast milk. After 24 hours, 0.02% of a maternal dose (a single 80 mg dose) of eletriptan was excreted in breast milk. The mean milk to plasma ratio was 1:4 but was variable. The concentration-time profile was similar to that seen in the plasma over 24 hours. Very low concentrations of drug (mean 1.7 ng/ml) remained in the breast milk 18—24 hours post dose. The active metabolite was not measured. The manufacturer recommends caution if eletriptan is administered to a breast-feeding woman. The effects of eletriptan on the nursing infant are not known; however, the very low concentrations of the drug in the breast milk suggest that eletriptan is compatible with breast feeding. Pumping or expressing breast milk and discarding it up to several hours after a dose would help to avoid maximum infant exposure to eletriptan. Additionally, eletriptan is typically given as a one or two time dose, which may lessen infant risk.
 
The safety and efficacy of eletriptan in children have not been determined. The manufacturer recommends that eletriptan not be used in children or adolescents < 18 years of age. Efficacy was not established in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of eletriptan in 274 adolescents age 11—17. Adverse effects were similar to those seen in adults. Pediatric patients have also experienced clinically serious adverse events similar to those rarely reported in adults. Long-term safety of eletriptan in pediatric patients has not been established.
 
Animal studies have suggested that eletriptan may bind to melanin present in the retina of the eye. Theoretically, over long periods, eletriptan may accumulate in the eye. Additionally, transient corneal opacities were seen in the first week of treatment in dogs at doses of 5 mg/kg and higher. While no ophthalmologic testing is recommended by the manufacturer, health care professionals should be aware of the possibility of long-term effects on the eye.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    basilar/hemiplegic migraine
    General Information
    Eletriptan is contraindicated in basilar/hemiplegic migraine. Before treating headaches in individuals not previously diagnosed with migraine, and in individuals with migraine who present with atypical symptoms, exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Eletriptan is not recommended for use in individuals with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic failure. The effects of severe hepatic impairment on the metabolism of eletriptan have not been evaluated.
    Headline
    cardiac accessory conduction pathway syndrome, coronary artery disease, coronary artery vasospasm, diabetes mellitus, family history of ischemic heart disease, geriatric, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, males, obesity, peripheral vascular disease, postmenopausal females, stroke, tobacco smoking
    General Information
    Eletriptan is contraindicated in individuals with ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (i.e., angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, documented silent ischemia), coronary artery vasospasm (including Prinzmetal angina), arrhythmias associated with cardiac accessory conduction pathway syndrome (including Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome), uncontrolled hypertension, peripheral vascular disease (including ischemic bowel disease), or a history of stroke (including transient ischemic attack). Perform a cardiovascular (CV) evaluation in triptan-naive individuals who have multiple CV risk factors (e.g., increased age including geriatric adults, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, tobacco smoking, obesity, strong family history of ischemic heart disease, postmenopausal females, males older than 40 years) before administering eletriptan. For individuals with risk factors who have a negative CV evaluation, consider administering the first dose of eletriptan in a medically-supervised setting and obtaining an ECG immediately after administration. Consider periodic CV evaluation in intermittent long-term users of eletriptan who have CV risk factors. Before treating headaches in individuals not previously diagnosed with migraine, and in individuals with migraine who present with atypical symptoms, exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions; individuals with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events (e.g., stroke, hemorrhage, transient ischemic attack). Significant blood pressure elevation has been reported on rare occasions in individuals with or without a history of hypertension receiving serotonin receptor agonists (triptans). Monitor blood pressure during eletriptan treatment.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery
    General Information
    Advise individuals against driving or operating machinery or participating in activities requiring coordination and concentration if they experience dizziness, drowsiness, or weakness after taking eletriptan.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of eletriptan during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. People with migraine may be at increased risk for preeclampsia and gestational hypertension. A study using linked data from the Medical Birth Registry of Norway to the Norwegian Prescription Database compared pregnancy outcomes in patients who filled prescriptions for triptans during pregnancy compared to patients with a history of migraine who filled prescriptions for triptans prior to pregnancy only. Of the people who redeemed prescriptions for eletriptan during the first trimester, 2.1% (4/189) gave birth to infants with major congenital malformations compared to 6.3% (11/174) of the unexposed comparator group. This data does not allow for a thorough characterization of risk. In animal studies, eletriptan was associated with developmental toxicity. In rats, decreased fetal weight and an increased incidence of skeletal variations were observed at maternally toxic doses. The no-effect dose for adverse effects on embryofetal development was approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on body surface area. In rabbits, decreased fetal weights, fused sternebrae, and vena cava deviations were observed at doses similar to the MRHD, in the absence of maternal toxicity. The no-effect dose in rats for adverse effects on pre- and postnatal development was approximately 2 times the MRHD; higher doses were associated with a decrease in offspring viability and body weight.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use eletriptan with caution during breast-feeding. Eletriptan is present in human milk. The mean total amount of the drug in human milk after a single 80 mg dose in 8 postpartum patients was 0.02% of the administered dose over 24 hours. The concentration-time profile in milk was similar to plasma over 24 hours. Very low concentrations remained in milk (mean 1.7 nanograms/mL) 18 to 24 hours post-dose. The minimally active metabolite desmethyleletriptan was not quantified. Other agents with more data, such as sumatriptan, may be preferred. 70364

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Available data on the use of eletriptan during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse outcomes. People with migraine may be at increased risk for preeclampsia and gestational hypertension. A study using linked data from the Medical Birth Registry of Norway to the Norwegian Prescription Database compared pregnancy outcomes in patients who filled prescriptions for triptans during pregnancy compared to patients with a history of migraine who filled prescriptions for triptans prior to pregnancy only. Of the people who redeemed prescriptions for eletriptan during the first trimester, 2.1% (4/189) gave birth to infants with major congenital malformations compared to 6.3% (11/174) of the unexposed comparator group. This data does not allow for a thorough characterization of risk. In animal studies, eletriptan was associated with developmental toxicity. In rats, decreased fetal weight and an increased incidence of skeletal variations were observed at maternally toxic doses. The no-effect dose for adverse effects on embryofetal development was approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on body surface area. In rabbits, decreased fetal weights, fused sternebrae, and vena cava deviations were observed at doses similar to the MRHD, in the absence of maternal toxicity. The no-effect dose in rats for adverse effects on pre- and postnatal development was approximately 2 times the MRHD; higher doses were associated with a decrease in offspring viability and body weight.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use eletriptan with caution during breast-feeding. Eletriptan is present in human milk. The mean total amount of the drug in human milk after a single 80 mg dose in 8 postpartum patients was 0.02% of the administered dose over 24 hours. The concentration-time profile in milk was similar to plasma over 24 hours. Very low concentrations remained in milk (mean 1.7 nanograms/mL) 18 to 24 hours post-dose. The minimally active metabolite desmethyleletriptan was not quantified. Other agents with more data, such as sumatriptan, may be preferred. 70364

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering dihydrocodeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Adagrasib: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of adagrasib due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A; adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of eletriptan by 6-fold.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering alfentanil with eletriptan. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Almotriptan: (Contraindicated) Almotriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with eletriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of clarithromycin due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Amphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine Salts: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with oral, multi-day regimens of aprepitant. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4. Aprepitant, when administered as a 3-day oral regimen (125 mg/80 mg/80 mg), is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity. (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of cobicistat due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Avacopan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with avacopan. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering benzhydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Benzphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Berotralstat: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with berotralstat. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4 and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with lenacapavir. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Bromocriptine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot derivatives, such as bromocriptine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Some ergot derivatives and serotonin-receptor antagonists have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering buprenorphine with serotonergic-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering buprenorphine with serotonergic-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant buspirone and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Cabergoline: (Major) When possible, avoid concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists (triptans) within 24 hours of cabergoline administration to minimize the risk for serious coronary ischemia. Ergot alkaloids have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions which may be additive with the effects of triptans. The risk for vasospastic adverse reactions may be less with cabergoline, a semisynthetic ergot alkaloid derivative, than with other ergot alkaloids as cabergoline is a relatively selective dopamine agonist. In select patients, the combination of cabergoline and "triptans" has been utilized in the management of some headache types, but more data are needed regarding safety and efficacy.
Capsaicin; Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Ceritinib: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of ceritinib due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Chloramphenicol: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of chloramphenicol due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with ciprofloxacin. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering eletriptan with citalopram. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue citalopram and eletriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of clarithromycin due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of cobicistat due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of cocaine with other drugs that have CNS serotonergic properties, such as serotonin-receptor agonists, could potentiate serotonin neurotransmission, and result in serotonergic side effects or rarely, serotonin syndrome. The actions of cocaine are presumed to include inhibition of presynaptic reuptake of serotonin. In most medical use cases, cocaine would be administered topically, and this interaction would not be of concern, as serotonin-agonists for migraine are used mostly "as needed". Illicit use of cocaine is of potential concern for interactions.
Codeine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering codeine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Conivaptan: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with conivaptan. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan over all exposure by 2 to 4-fold.
Crizotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with crizotinib. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with cyclosporine. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Dabrafenib: (Major) The concomitant use of dabrafenib and eletriptan may lead to decreased eletriptan concentrations and loss of efficacy. Use of an alternative agent is recommended. If concomitant use of these agents together is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of eletriptan efficacy. Dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer and eletriptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use of dabrafenib with a single dose of another sensitive CYP3A4 substrate decreased the AUC value of the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate by 65%.
Darunavir: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity. (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of cobicistat due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity. (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of cobicistat due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering desvenlafaxine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextroamphetamine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and amphetamine; dextroamphetamine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with diltiazem. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with dronedarone. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Droxidopa: (Major) Coadministration of droxidopa with other agents that increase blood pressure, such as serotonin-receptor agonists, would be expected to increase the risk for supine hypertension. Monitor supine blood pressure. Reduce or discontinue droxidopa if supine hypertension persists. If supine hypertension is not well-managed, droxidopa may increase the risk of cardiovascular events.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant duloxetine and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Duvelisib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of eletriptan if coadministered with duvelisib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of eletriptan. Eletriptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate; duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration of eletriptan with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor increased the eletriptan AUC by 4-fold.
Efavirenz: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of eletriptan and efavirenz is not recommended. Eletriptan is metabolized by CYP3A4, and inhibition of CYP3A4 by efavirenz may result in elevated eletriptan concentrations and serious adverse events.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of eletriptan and efavirenz is not recommended. Eletriptan is metabolized by CYP3A4, and inhibition of CYP3A4 by efavirenz may result in elevated eletriptan concentrations and serious adverse events.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of eletriptan and efavirenz is not recommended. Eletriptan is metabolized by CYP3A4, and inhibition of CYP3A4 by efavirenz may result in elevated eletriptan concentrations and serious adverse events.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Major) Administering eletriptan with grazoprevir may result in elevated eletriptan plasma concentrations. Eletriptan is a substrate of CYP3A; grazoprevir is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. If these drugs are used together, closely monitor for signs of adverse events.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Moderate) Use caution when administering ivacaftor and eletriptan concurrently. Ivacaftor is an inhibitor of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (Pgp). Co-administration of ivacaftor with CYP3A and Pgp substrates, such as eletriptan, can increase eletriptan exposure leading to increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Coadministration of eletriptan and eliglustat may result in increased plasma concentrations of eletriptan. Monitor patients closely for eletriptan-related adverse effects. Eletriptan is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate; eliglustat is a P-gp inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of cobicistat due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of cobicistat due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of ensitrelvir due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of eletriptan by 6-fold.
Ergoloid Mesylates: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as ergoloid mesylates, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergotamine and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
Erythromycin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with erythromycin. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering eletriptan with escitalopram. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue escitalopram and eletriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Etravirine: (Moderate) Etravirine is a CYP3A4 inducer/substrate and a P-glycoprotein (PGP) inhibitor and eletriptan is a CYP3A4 and PGP substrate. Caution is warranted if these drugs are coadministered.
Fedratinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with fedratinib. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and serotonin receptor agonists with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) If concomitant use of fentanyl and eletriptan is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with fluconazole. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering eletriptan with fluoxetine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue fluoxetine and eletriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering eletriptan with fluvoxamine; eletriptan exposure may also increase. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue fluvoxamine and eletriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Fosamprenavir: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity.
Frovatriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with frovatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and serotonin-receptor agonists is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with the coadministration of glecaprevir and eletriptan as coadministration may increase serum concentrations of eletriptan and increase the risk of adverse effects. Eletriptan is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp); glecaprevir is a P-gp inhibitor.
Grapefruit juice: (Moderate) Eletriptan is metabolized via the hepatic cytochrome P-450 CYP 3A4. Grapefruit juice contains a compound that inhibits CYP3A4 in enterocytes. It is not clear what effect grapefruit juice has on eletriptan bioavailability or metabolism. Advise patients not to significantly alter their grapefruit juice intake while on eletriptan. The clinical significance of the potential interaction is not known.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydrocodone with serotonin-recptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering hydromorphone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Idelalisib: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of idelalisib, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with eletriptan, a CYP3A substrate, as eletriptan toxicities may be significantly increased. The AUC of a sensitive CYP3A substrate was increased 5.4-fold when coadministered with idelalisib. Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of usage of any drug that is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, including idelalisib.
Imatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with imatinib. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Isavuconazonium: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with isavuconazonium. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Isocarboxazid: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering eletriptan with isocarboxazid. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue eletriptan with isocarboxazid and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Itraconazole: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of itraconazole due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Use caution when administering ivacaftor and eletriptan concurrently. Ivacaftor is an inhibitor of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (Pgp). Co-administration of ivacaftor with CYP3A and Pgp substrates, such as eletriptan, can increase eletriptan exposure leading to increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events.
Ivosidenib: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of efficacy of eletriptan during coadministration of ivosidenib; a eletriptan dose adjustment may be necessary. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; ivosidenib induces CYP3A4 and may lead to decreased eletriptan concentrations.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of ketoconazole due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of clarithromycin due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Lefamulin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with oral lefamulin. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Lenacapavir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with lenacapavir. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Eletriptan and letermovir may be administered concurrently with caution; however, if the patient is also receiving cyclosporine, eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of receiving letermovir and cyclosporine because the magnitude of this interaction may be increased. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Concurrent use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and exposure (AUC) of eletriptan by 3- and 6-fold, respectively. When eletriptan was given with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan increased by 2- and 4-fold, respectively.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of ketoconazole due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of ketoconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levomilnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering levorphanol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Linezolid: (Major) Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a reversible, non-selective inhibitor of MAO and should not be administered with serotonin-receptor agonists. The monoamine oxidase type A enzyme metabolizes serotonin. Non-selective MAO inhibitors increase the plasma concentrations of these drugs and some of their active metabolites, thus increasing levels of serotonin. This interaction could lead to serotonin syndrome. The manufacturers of serotonin agonists contraindicate the administration of their drugs to patients receiving non-selective MAO inhibitors like linezolid or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of a MAO inhibitor.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Major) Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation or dosage increase, during concomitant lisdexamfetamine and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk of serotonin syndrome.
Lithium: (Major) If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome and inform patients of the increased risk. If serotonin syndrome is suspected, serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented. There is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome during concurrent use of drugs with central serotonergic properties such as lithium and serotonin-receptor agonists. Signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome include autonomic instability (e.g., labile blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, dizziness, hyperthermia), mental status changes (e.g., delirium, confusion, coma), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), gastrointestinal effects (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), seizures, and in rare cases, death.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of lonafarnib due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the systemic exposure of eletriptan. Eletriptan is a primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data also suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce and/or inhibit P-gp. Although induction of eletriptan through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport is not clear. Monitor the patient for decreased eletriptan efficacy or increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Use caution when administering ivacaftor and eletriptan concurrently. Ivacaftor is an inhibitor of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (Pgp). Co-administration of ivacaftor with CYP3A and Pgp substrates, such as eletriptan, can increase eletriptan exposure leading to increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events. (Minor) Lumacaftor; ivacaftor may alter the systemic exposure of eletriptan. Eletriptan is a primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer; in vitro data also suggest lumacaftor; ivacaftor may induce and/or inhibit P-gp. Although induction of eletriptan through the CYP3A pathway may lead to decreased drug efficacy, the net effect of lumacaftor; ivacaftor on P-gp transport is not clear. Monitor the patient for decreased eletriptan efficacy or increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with rizatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering meperidine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Metaxalone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and metaxalone may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use is necessary.
Methadone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering methadone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Methamphetamine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Methylene Blue: (Major) Theoretically, concurrent use of methylene blue and serotonin-receptor agonists may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A) and serotonin-receptor agonists increase central serotonin effects. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic agents with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of various symptoms such as hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, hyperhidrosis, incoordination, diarrhea, mental status changes (e.g., confusion, delirium, or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Methylergonovine: (Contraindicated) The use of ergot alkaloids, such as methylergonovine, and serotonin-receptor agonists within 24 hours of each another is contraindicated due to an increased risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. Both medications have been associated with vasospasm and concomitant use may increase this risk.
miFEPRIStone: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of chronic mifepristone therapy due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. The clinical significance of this interaction is not established when mifepristone is used for pregnancy termination. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering milnacipran with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Discontinue serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Mirtazapine: (Major) The coadministration of serotonergic antidepressants with serotonin-agonists has sometimes resulted in serotonin syndrome. Careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, and hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination) and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea). Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome, which includes hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuation of vital signs, and mental status changes. Discontinue the serotonergic agents immediately if serotonin syndrome reactions occur and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment.
Mitotane: (Major) Use caution if mitotane and eletriptan are used concomitantly, and monitor for decreased efficacy of eletriptan and a possible change in dosage requirements. Mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and eletriptan is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of eletriptan.
Morphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering morphine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering nalbuphine with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Naratriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with naratriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Nefazodone: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of nefazodone due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively. In addition, although clinical data for some interactions is lacking, medications that augment release, decrease the metabolism of, or decrease the reuptake of serotonin (e.g., serotonin-receptor agonists) may interact with nefazodone by causing serotonin-related side effects, including serotonin syndrome.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with netupitant. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Additive serotonergic-related side effects might also occur. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Nilotinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with nilotinib. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions including cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events, use of eletriptan within 72 hours of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir is contraindicated. Coadministration may increase eletriptan exposure resulting in increased toxicity. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4 and nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A inhibitor. (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity.
Nirogacestat: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with nirogacestat. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering eletriptan with fluoxetine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue fluoxetine and eletriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and serotonin-receptor agonists is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Oritavancin: (Minor) Eletriptan is metabolized by CYP3A4; oritavancin is a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of eletriptan may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxycodone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering oxymorphone with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering eletriptan with paroxetine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue paroxetine and eletriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
PAZOPanib: (Moderate) Pazopanib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration of pazopanib and eletriptan, a CYP3A4 substrate, may cause an increase in systemic concentrations of eletriptan. Use caution when administering these drugs concomitantly.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Phenelzine: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering eletriptan with phenelzine. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue eletriptan with phenelzine and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of posaconazole due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant dextromethorphan and serotonin-receptor agonists use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Propranolol: (Minor) Periodically monitor blood pressure in patients who regularly use eletriptan and are taking propranolol. Monitor for the rare patient who might experience an increase in dose-related side effects of eletriptan, such as nausea, dizziness, and drowsiness. No dosage adjustment appears to be needed for eletriptan. The Cmax and AUC of eletriptan were increased by 10 and 33%, respectively, in the presence of propranolol. No interactive increases in blood pressure were observed. The interaction should not be significant for most patients.
Protease inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
quiNINE: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with quinine. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A4, and quinine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Rasagiline: (Minor) Use together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans") and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Unlike some serotonin-receptor agonists, eletriptan is not a substrate for MAO; therefore, its metabolism is not affected by MAOIs. Therefore, MAOI-based interactions appear to be less likely with eletriptan. Since rasagiline selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with eletriptan would be expected with normal prescription use. However, there is a decline in MAO-B selectivity with increasing rasagiline doses. Monitor for potential serotonin-related side effects. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Relacorilant: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of relacorilant due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased the overall exposure of eletriptan by 6-fold.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering remifentanil with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Ribociclib: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of ribociclib due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of ribociclib due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Rilzabrutinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with rilzabrutinib. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2- to 4-fold.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with ritlecitinib. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity.
Rizatriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with rizatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Saquinavir: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant eletriptan and selegiline use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering eletriptan with sertraline. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin-receptor agonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase of the SSRI or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing SSRI regimen. Discontinue sertraline and eletriptan and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Moderate) Plasma concentrations of eletriptan, a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, may be increased when administered concurrently with voxilaprevir, a P-gp inhibitor. Monitor patients for increased side effects if these drugs are administered concurrently.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Although unlikely to occur during monotherapy with serotonin-receptor agonists ("triptans"), coadministration with serotonergic agents like St. John's Wort may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Inform the patient of the increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Consider a dose adjustment of eletriptan when coadministered with stiripentol. Coadministration may alter plasma concentrations of eletriptan resulting in an increased risk of adverse reactions and/or decreased efficacy. Eletriptan is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. In vitro data predicts inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by stiripentol potentially resulting in clinically significant interactions.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering sufentanil with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
SUMAtriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with sumatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with sumatriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tapentadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Moderate) Use caution when administering ivacaftor and eletriptan concurrently. Ivacaftor is an inhibitor of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (Pgp). Co-administration of ivacaftor with CYP3A and Pgp substrates, such as eletriptan, can increase eletriptan exposure leading to increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and adverse events.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 72 hours of using any drug that is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor as described in the prescribing information of the interacting drug including protease inhibitors. Eletriptan is metabolized via CYP3A4, and coadministration with protease inhibitors may cause increased eletriptan concentrations and thus toxicity.
traMADol: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering tramadol with serotonin-receptor agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with verapamil. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, tranylcypromine is contraindicated for use with eletriptan. Tranylcypromine should not be used within 4 to 5 half-lives of discontinuing treatment with eletriptan.
traZODone: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant trazodone and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant serotonin-receptor agonist and tricyclic antidepressant use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Tryptophan, 5-Hydroxytryptophan: (Contraindicated) Combining medications that potentiate serotonin neurotransmission, such as serotonin-receptor agonists and tryptophan, could result in serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome, while uncommon, can be serious and consists of symptoms such as mental status changes, diaphoresis, tremor, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, and fever.
Tucatinib: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of tucatinib due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of vemurafenib and eletriptan may result in altered concentrations of eletriptan. Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (PGP) and an inducer of CYP3A4. Eletriptan is a substrate of PGP and CYP3A4. Use caution and monitor patients for toxicity and efficacy.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant venlafaxine and serotonin-receptor agonist use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with verapamil. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
Vilazodone: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vilazodone with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) with serotonin-receptor agonists. Of the 27 cases reviewed by the FDA, 2 were considered life-threatening and 13 required hospitalization. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident. Eight of 27 cases involved a recent dose increase or addition of another serotonergic drug to the regimen, with a median onset of 1 day (range: 10 minutes to 6 days). It is thought that the interaction between SNRIs or SSRIs and serotonin-receptor agonists is the result of increased serotonergic activity by each of the drug classes. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. At least 6 patients taking an SSRI antidepressant are known to have received sumatriptan for migraine where no apparent adverse effects were seen. In another case report, the addition of fluoxetine lead to loss of migraine control with sumatriptan. Patients receiving vilazodone and a serotonin-receptor agonist should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. Vilazodone and the serotonin-receptor agonist should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of clarithromycin due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated with recent use (i.e., within 72 hours) of voriconazole due to the potential for increased eletriptan exposure. Eletriptan is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A4; voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased the Cmax and AUC of eletriptan by 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering vortioxetine with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as serotonin-receptor agonists (e.g., almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan). Serotonin syndrome has been reported during concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants with the serotonin-receptor agonists. Some patients had used the combination previously without incident when serotonin syndrome occurred. Some cases have involved hospitalization. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion, hallucinations), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, hypertension, diarrhea, fever, tremor, and, in some instances, respiratory failure. Serotonin syndrome, in its most severe form, can resemble neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Careful monitoring for serotonin syndrome is recommended if combination therapy with is required. Risk factors can include a recent dose increase of the sertonergic antidepressant or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing antidepressant regimen.
Voxelotor: (Moderate) Monitor for increased eletriptan-related adverse effects if coadministered with voxelotor. Systemic concentrations of eletriptan may be increased. Eletriptan is a substrate for CYP3A, and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of other moderate CYP3A inhibitors increased the eletriptan AUC by 2 to 4-fold.
ZOLMitriptan: (Contraindicated) Eletriptan is contraindicated for use within 24 hours of treatment with zolmitriptan due to the risk for additive vasospastic reactions. Additive serotonergic effects, including serotonin syndrome, may also occur.
Zonisamide: (Minor) Zonisamide is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and eletriptan is a substrate of P-gp. There is theoretical potential for zonisamide to affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are P-gp substrates. Use caution when starting or stopping zonisamide or changing the zonisamide dosage in patients also receiving drugs which are P-gp substrates.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Common adverse effects that occur with the use of eletriptan are similar to those seen with other serotonin receptor agonists (i.e., 'triptans'). Asthenia (weakness) is the most commonly reported effect, occurring in up to 10% of patients. Other adverse reactions which have been reported in at least 2% of patients receiving oral eletriptan in clinical trials (and greater than placebo) include abdominal pain (1—2%), dizziness (3—7%), drowsiness (3—7%), dyspepsia (1—2%), dysphagia (1—2%), flushing (2%), headache (3—4%), nausea/vomiting (4—8%/0%), paresthesias (4%) and xerostomia (2—4%). Most adverse reactions are dose-related, occurring more frequently with a single 80 mg dose of eletriptan than with 20—40 mg single doses of eletriptan. In long-term, open-label studies of up to 1 year, 128 (8.3%) out of 1544 patients discontinued eletriptan treatment due to adverse events. The frequency of adverse events did not increase when up to two doses were administered in a 24-hour time period. Adverse events frequencies were also unchanged by concomitant use of prophylactic migraine therapies (e.g., SSRIs, beta-blockers, CCBs, TCAs), estrogen replacement therapy and oral contraceptives.Results of a large, double-blind, comparative trial of eletriptan and sumatriptan indicate that although the percentage of treatment-related adverse effects was higher with eletriptan 80 mg PO than sumatriptan 100 mg PO (72% vs 52%), no unanticipated or serious adverse effects occurred. In addition, no ECG changes or significant laboratory abnormalities were reported in either group. The use of eletriptan 40 mg and 80 mg doses received a higher acceptability rating than sumatriptan 100 mg when subjects were queried about their preference for the study medication versus previous treatments they had received. However, due to a higher incidence of adverse events, an 80 mg dose of eletriptan is not recommended.Serious cardiac events (some fatal events) have been reported following 5-HT1 agonist therapy; these events may include coronary vasospasm, transient myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, ventricular tachycardia, atrial fibrillation and ventricular fibrillation. These events are extremely rare and have been primarily reported in patients with risk factors predictive of coronary artery disease. Palpitations were reported frequently (at least 0.01%) in clinical trials with eletriptan. Chest pressure syndrome or chest pain (unspecified) has also been reported during 5-HT1 agonist therapy. In eletriptan studies, chest tightness occurred in 1—4% of patients and appeared to be dose-related. A segmental constriction of the right coronary artery, in conjunction with chest tightness, occurred in one patient during IV administration of eletriptan. No ECG changes were reported. It is unclear if this vasospastic event was caused by the medication or a catheter-related coronary vasospasm from angiography. Hemodynamic effects which have occurred in patients without overt coronary artery disease following IV administration of eletriptan include increases in systemic vascular resistance, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, right atrial pressure, and mean pulmonary artery pressure. These effects were not associated with any coronary events; however, the clinical relevance of these findings in those with cardiac disease has not been determined. It is not clear if, like other serotonin agonists, eletriptan can produce clinically significant hypertension in susceptible individuals. Orally administered high-dose eletriptan (90—120 mg) has produced transient increases in diastolic blood pressure (10 mm Hg). In eletriptan clinical trials, blood pressure has increased to a greater extent in the elderly vs. younger patients and in renally impaired patients.Other 5-HT1 agonists have been associated with cerebral vasospasm resulting in intracranial bleeding, subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke, seizures, and other cerebrovascular events, some of which have lead to fatalities. The relationship with the 5-HT1 agonist is unclear. In a several cases, it appears that the cerebrovascular incident was the primary event and the 5-HT1 agonist was given due to the incorrect assumption that these symptoms were due to a migraine when they were not. Eletriptan should not be administered if the migraine is atypical for the patient.Other vasospastic effects associated with 5-HT1 agonists include peripheral vascular ischemia and bowel ischemia. Stomach pain, bloody diarrhea, and cramping have been associated with ischemic colitis following administration of other 5-HT1 agonists with a median time to onset of 48 hours.Other frequently reported (at least 0.01%) adverse events in eletriptan clinical trials included: back pain, chills, hypertonia, hyperesthesia, pharyngitis, sweating and vertigo. Consult the manufacturer's labeling for additional information on infrequent (0.01—0.001%) or rarely (< 0.001%) reported adverse events.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    abdominal pain, bowel ischemia, dyspepsia, dysphagia, nausea, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of eletriptan for acute migraines, the following gastrointestinal (GI) effects were reported (eletriptan group 2% or more and greater than placebo) in recipients of eletriptan 20 mg, eletriptan 40 mg, eletriptan 80 mg, or placebo, respectively: xerostomia (2%, 3%, 4%, 2%), dyspepsia (1%, 2%, 2%, 1%), dysphagia (1%, 2%, 2%, 0.2%), nausea (4%, 5%, 8%, 5%) and abdominal pain/discomfort/stomach pain/cramps/pressure sensations (1%, 2%, 2%, 1%). Vomiting has been reported during postmarketing use. Vasospastic GI effects associated with 5-HT1 agonists (triptans) include GI vascular ischemia (bowel ischemia) and infarction (presenting with abdominal pain and diarrhea).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bowel ischemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, drowsiness, headache, medication overuse headache, seizures, serotonin syndrome, withdrawal
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of eletriptan for acute migraines, the following centrally-mediated (CNS) effects were reported (eletriptan group 2% or more and greater than placebo) in recipients of eletriptan 20 mg, eletriptan 40 mg, eletriptan 80 mg, or placebo, respectively: dizziness (3%, 6%, 7%, 3%), drowsiness (3%, 6%, 7%, 4%), and headache (4%, 3%, 4%, 3%). During postmarketing use, seizures have been reported. Overuse of drugs for treating acute headaches, including serotonin agonists (triptans), may lead to medication overuse headache. People may experience migraine-like daily headaches or a significant increase in migraine attack frequency. Withdrawal of the overused drug and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (e.g., transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. Advise treated individuals about the risks of medication overuse (e.g., use of eletriptan or any combination of therapy for at least 10 days/month) and encourage them to keep a written record of headache frequency and drug use. Serotonin syndrome may occur with triptan use, particularly during concurrent use of serotonergic agents such as SSRIs or SNRIs. Serotonin syndrome consists of symptoms such as mental status changes (e.g., agitation, confusion), diaphoresis, hyperreflexia, elevated blood pressure, hyperthermia, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      medication overuse headache
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), chest pressure syndrome, coronary vasospasm, hypertension, myocardial infarction, peripheral vasoconstriction, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    Life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm, including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation leading to death, have been reported within a few hours following the administration of serotonin 5-HT1 agonists (triptans). Discontinue eletriptan if these disturbances occur. Other serious cardiac events reported with triptan use include coronary vasospasm, transient myocardial ischemia, and myocardial infarction. These events are rare and have been reported in people with and without known coronary artery disease. Chest pressure syndrome or chest pain (unspecified) has been reported during triptan therapy. During clinical trial evaluation of eletriptan, chest tightness/pain/pressure was reported in 1% of people receiving eletriptan 20 mg, 2% of people receiving eletriptan 40 mg, 4% of people receiving eletriptan 80 mg, and 1% with placebo. Significant blood pressure elevations, including hypertensive crisis with acute organ system impairment, have rarely been reported with triptan therapy. Elevations in blood pressure have been reported in people with and without a history of hypertension. Vasospastic effects associated with triptans include peripheral vascular ischemia (peripheral vasoconstriction) and Raynaud's syndrome.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      chest pressure syndrome
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      coronary vasospasm
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasoconstriction
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    intracranial bleeding, stroke
    General Information
    Treatment with some serotonin receptor agonists (triptans) has been associated with cerebral vasospasm resulting in intracranial bleeding, subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke, other cerebrovascular events, and fatalities. In several cases, it appears that the cerebrovascular incident was the primary event and the triptan was given with the incorrect assumption that these symptoms were due to a migraine when they were not.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      intracranial bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    flushing, paresthesias
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of eletriptan for acute migraines, the following atypical sensations were reported (eletriptan group 2% or more and greater than placebo) in people receiving eletriptan 20 mg, eletriptan 40 mg, eletriptan 80 mg, or placebo, respectively: paresthesias (3%, 3%, 4%, 2%) and flushing/feeling of warmth (2%, 2%, 2%, 2%). As with other serotonin 5-HT1 agonists, people receiving eletriptan have experienced sensations of tightness, pain, pressure, and heaviness in the precordium, throat, neck and jaw. These adverse events are usually non-cardiac in origin. Perform a cardiac evaluation if people experiencing these sensations are at high cardiac risk.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of eletriptan for acute migraines, asthenia was reported in people receiving eletriptan 20 mg (4%), eletriptan 40 mg (5%), eletriptan 80 mg (10%), or placebo (3%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, rash
    General Information
    Anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions and hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema or rash have been reported in people taking eletriptan or other triptans. Such reactions may be life-threatening or fatal and are more likely to occur in people with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor

Description
  Text
  Eletriptan is a serotonin-receptor 1B and 1D agonist (triptan) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. Eletriptan is not indicated for long-term migraine prophylaxis or for the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine, nor cluster headaches. Serious cardiac adverse effects may occur during eletriptan administration and are more likely to occur in people with risk factors for coronary artery disease, although some events have occurred in people without known cardiac risk factors. Eletriptan was FDA-approved in 2002.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Eletriptan binds with high affinity to 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D, and 5-HT1F receptors and has modest affinity for 5-HT1A, 5-HT1E, 5-HT2B, and 5-HT7 receptors. Migraines are likely due to local cranial vasodilatation and/or to the release of sensory neuropeptides (i.e., vasoactive intestinal peptide, substance P, and calcitonin gene-related peptide) through nerve endings in the trigeminal system. The therapeutic activity of eletriptan for the treatment of migraine headache is thought to be due to the agonist effects at the 5-HT1B/1D receptors on intracranial blood vessels (including the arterio-venous anastomoses) and sensory nerves of the trigeminal system which result in cranial vessel constriction and inhibition of pro-inflammatory neuropeptide release. Eletriptan, like other serotonin agonists ("triptans"), has no pharmacologic activity at dopaminergic, muscarinic, or sympathetic receptors and does not possess intrinsic analgesic properties.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Eletriptan is well absorbed after oral administration with peak plasma concentrations occurring approximately 1.5 hours after dosing to healthy subjects. In patients with moderate to severe migraine, the median Tmax is 2 hours. The mean absolute bioavailability of eletriptan is approximately 50%. The oral pharmacokinetics are slightly more than dose-proportional over the clinical dose range. The AUC and Cmax of eletriptan are increased by approximately 20% to 30% after oral administration with a high-fat meal. Mean renal clearance after oral administration is approximately 3.9 L/hour.
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    The volume of distribution of eletriptan after IV administration is 138 L.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment demonstrated an increase in both the AUC (34%) and half-life of eletriptan. Cmax was increased by 18%. The effects of severe hepatic impairment on eletriptan metabolism have not been evaluated.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    There was no significant change in eletriptan clearance observed in subjects with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment, though blood pressure elevations were observed in this population.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of eletriptan are generally unaffected by age. The pharmacokinetic disposition of eletriptan is similar in geriatric and younger adults. There is a statistically significant increased half-life (from about 4.4 hours to 5.7 hours) between geriatric (65 to 93 years) and younger adult subjects (18 to 45 years).
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of eletriptan are unaffected by gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    A comparison of pharmacokinetic studies from Western countries with those from Japan has indicated an approximate 35% reduction in the exposure of eletriptan in Japanese male volunteers compared to Western males. Population pharmacokinetic analysis of 2 clinical studies indicates no evidence of pharmacokinetic differences between Caucasians and non-Caucasian subjects.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Menstrual Cycle
In a study of 16 healthy females, the pharmacokinetics of eletriptan remained consistent throughout the phases of the menstrual cycle.
  Text
  Eletriptan is administered orally. Protein binding is moderate and approximately 85%. It is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4 in the liver. The parent compound is demethylated to an active metabolite, which has a half-life of 13 hours and a plasma concentration of 10% to 20% of eletriptan. The metabolite is unlikely to contribute to the overall effect of the parent compound. The terminal elimination half-life of eletriptan is approximately 4 hours. Nonrenal clearance accounts for about 90% of total clearance.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
In vitro studies indicate that eletriptan is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. In vitro human liver microsome studies suggest eletriptan has little potential to inhibit CYP1A2, 2C9, 2E1, and 3A4 at concentrations up to 100 micromolar. While eletriptan has an effect on CYP2D6 at high concentrations, this effect should not interfere with the metabolism of other drugs when eletriptan is used at recommended doses. There is no in vitro or in vivo evidence that clinical doses of eletriptan will induce drug-metabolizing enzymes. Therefore, eletriptan is unlikely to cause clinically important drug interactions mediated by these enzymes. Eletriptan is a substrate of P-gp.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer tablets with or without food.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    80 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    80 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Avoid use in people with severe hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is needed for mild or moderate hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis:
No dosage recommendations are available.
Peritoneal dialysis:
No dosage recommendations are available.
