=== Trofinetide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5446)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Trofinetide is an oral analog of the amino-terminal tripeptide of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) indicated for the treatment of Rett syndrome.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: weighing 50 kg or more: 24,000 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, fever, seizures

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Avoid trofinetide use in persons with renal failure or severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute for adult patients or less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 for pediatric patients).

Brand Names
  - Daybue
  - Daybue Stix

Dosage Forms
  - Daybue 200mg/mL Solution
  - Daybue Stix 5,000mg Powder for Solution
  - Daybue Stix 6,000mg Powder for Solution
  - Daybue Stix 8,000mg Powder for Solution

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults weighing 50 kg or more
        Dosage Description
        12,000 mg PO twice daily.
        Heading
        Adults weighing 35 to 49 kg
        Dosage Description
        10,000 mg PO twice daily.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 50 kg or more
        Dosage Description
        12,000 mg PO twice daily.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 35 to 49 kg
        Dosage Description
        10,000 mg PO twice daily.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 2 to 17 years weighing 20 to 34 kg
        Dosage Description
        8,000 mg PO twice daily.
        Heading
        Children 2 to 12 years weighing 12 to 19 kg
        Dosage Description
        6,000 mg PO twice daily.
        Heading
        Children 2 to 12 years weighing 9 to 11 kg
        Dosage Description
        5,000 mg PO twice daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of Rett syndrome

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Avoid trofinetide use in persons with renal failure or severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/minute for adult patients or less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 for pediatric patients). Dose adjustment is recommended for patients with moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute for adult patients or 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2 for pediatric patients). Trofinetide is eliminated mainly through the kidneys.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with trofinetide use during human pregnancy. In animal studies, oral administration of trofinetide during the period of organogenesis or throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in no adverse effects on embryo-fetal development or pre- and postnatal development at plasma exposures lower than those used clinically.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use trofinetide with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of trofinetide or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breast-fed child, or their effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with trofinetide use during human pregnancy. In animal studies, oral administration of trofinetide during the period of organogenesis or throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in no adverse effects on embryo-fetal development or pre- and postnatal development at plasma exposures lower than those used clinically.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use trofinetide with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of trofinetide or its metabolites in human milk, their effects on the breast-fed child, or their effects on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of dihydrocodeine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. If trofinetide is discontinued, consider increasing the dihydrocodeine dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with trofinetide may increase dihydrocodeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased dihydromorphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If trofinetide is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. If trofinetide is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If trofinetide is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of trofinetide and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of trofinetide. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of alfentanil with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. If trofinetide is discontinued, consider increasing the alfentanil dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Alfentanil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase alfentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of alfentanil. If trofinetide is discontinued, alfentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil.
ALPRAZolam: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alprazolam and trofinetide due to the potential for elevated alprazolam concentrations, which may cause prolonged sedation and respiratory depression. If coadministration is necessary, consider reducing the dose of alprazolam as clinically appropriate and monitor for an increase in alprazolam-related adverse reactions. Lorazepam, oxazepam, or temazepam may be safer alternatives if a benzodiazepine must be administered in combination with trofinetide, as these benzodiazepines are not oxidatively metabolized. Alprazolam is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased alprazolam maximum concentration by 82%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for aripiprazole-related adverse reactions during concomitant use of trofinetide. Patients receiving both a CYP2D6 inhibitor plus trofinetide may require an aripiprazole dosage adjustment. Dosing recommendations vary based on aripiprazole dosage form, CYP2D6 inhibitor strength, and CYP2D6 metabolizer status. See prescribing information for details. Concomitant use may increase aripiprazole exposure and risk for side effects. Aripiprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. If trofinetide is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If trofinetide is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of benzhydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of benzhydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If trofinetide is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to benzhydrocodone.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and trofinetide can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when trofinetide is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping trofinetide, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If trofinetide is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and trofinetide is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of buprenorphine and trofinetide can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when trofinetide is added after a stable buprenorphine dose is achieved. If concurrent use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patient for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. When stopping trofinetide, the buprenorphine concentration may decrease, potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependency. If trofinetide is discontinued, consider increasing buprenorphine dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Buprenorphine is a substrate of CYP3A and trofinetide is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Monitor carbamazepine concentrations closely during coadministration of trofinetide; carbamazepine dose adjustments may be needed. Concomitant use may increase carbamazepine concentrations. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of trofinetide, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If trofinetide is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Cisapride: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cisapride and trofinetide; use increases cisapride exposure and the risk for adverse effects such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Cisapride is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of cisapride with CYP3A inhibitors is disallowed under the Propulsid Limited Access Program.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Consider a clozapine dose reduction if coadministered with trofinetide and monitor for adverse reactions. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor for lack of clozapine effect and increase dose if necessary. A clinically relevant increase in the plasma concentration of clozapine may occur during concurrent use. Clozapine is partially metabolized by CYP3A. Trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with trofinetide may increase codeine plasma concentrations, resulting in greater metabolism by CYP2D6, increased morphine concentrations, and prolonged opioid adverse reactions, including hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider a dosage reduction of codeine until stable drug effects are achieved. Discontinuation of trofinetide could decrease codeine plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to codeine. If trofinetide is discontinued, monitor the patient carefully and consider increasing the opioid dosage if appropriate. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Trofinetide is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and trofinetide due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in diazepam-related adverse reactions, including sedation and respiratory depression, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concurrent use may increase diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in disopyramide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary as concurrent use may increase disopyramide exposure. Disopyramide is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Although specific drug interaction studies have not been done for disopyramide, cases of life-threatening interactions have been reported when disopyramide was coadministered with moderate and strong CYP3A inhibitors.
Dofetilide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dofetilide-related adverse reactions, including QT prolongation, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary as concurrent use may increase dofetilide exposure. Trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Dofetilide is a minor CYP3A substrate; however, because there is a linear relationship between dofetilide plasma concentration and QTc, concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors may increase the risk of arrhythmia (torsade de pointes).
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with trofinetide may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of trofinetide with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of trofinetide with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with trofinetide. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of trofinetide. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of trofinetide; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with trofinetide may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with trofinetide may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of eliglustat and trofinetide is not recommended in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers (PMs). In extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EM) with mild hepatic impairment, coadministration of these agents requires dosage reduction of eliglustat to 84 mg PO once daily. Eliglustat is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Because CYP3A plays a significant role in the metabolism of eliglustat in CYP2D6 PMs, coadministration of eliglustat with CYP3A inhibitors may increase eliglustat exposure and the risk of serious adverse events (e.g., QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias).
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with trofinetide may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with trofinetide may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with trofinetide may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with trofinetide due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Felodipine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of felodipine and trofinetide should be approached with caution and conservative dosing of felodipine due to the potential for significant increases in felodipine exposure. Monitor for evidence of increased felodipine effects including decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concurrent use of another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased felodipine AUC and Cmax by approximately 50%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of fentanyl with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. If trofinetide is discontinued, consider increasing the fentanyl dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Fentanyl is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase fentanyl exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of fentanyl. If trofinetide is discontinued, fentanyl plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl.
Finerenone: (Moderate) Monitor serum potassium during initiation or dose adjustment of either finerenone or trofinetide; a finerenone dosage reduction may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase finerenone exposure and the risk of hyperkalemia. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another weak CYP3A inhibitor increased overall exposure to finerenone by 21%.
Flibanserin: (Moderate) The concomitant use of flibanserin and multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors, including trofinetide, may increase flibanserin concentrations, which may increase the risk of flibanserin-induced adverse reactions. Therefore, patients should be monitored for hypotension, syncope, somnolence, or other adverse reactions, and the potential outcomes of combination therapy with multiple weak CYP3A inhibitors and flibanserin should be discussed with the patient.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and trofinetide as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If trofinetide is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If trofinetide is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of hydrocodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase hydrocodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of hydrocodone. These effects could be more pronounced in patients also receiving a CYP2D6 inhibitor. If trofinetide is discontinued, hydrocodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to hydrocodone.
Isradipine: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in isradipine-related adverse reactions including hypotension if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for ixabepilone toxicity and reduce the ixabepilone dose as needed if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase ixabepilone exposure and the risk of adverse reactions. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with trofinetide may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of trofinetide with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; trofinetide may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lemborexant: (Major) Limit the dose of lemborexant to 5 mg PO once daily if coadministered with trofinetide as concomitant use may increase lemborexant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Lemborexant is a CYP3A substrate; trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase lemborexant exposure by less than 2-fold.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for lidocaine toxicity if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary as concurrent use may increase lidocaine exposure. Lidocaine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Lomitapide: (Major) Decrease the dose of lomitapide by one-half not to exceed 30 mg/day PO if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may significantly increase the serum concentration of lomitapide. Trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor; the exposure to lomitapide is increased by approximately 2-fold in the presence of weak CYP3A inhibitors.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lonafarnib and trofinetide; concurrent use may increase the exposure of lonafarnib and the risk of adverse effects. If coadministration is unavoidable, reduce to or continue lonafarnib at a dosage of 115 mg/m2 and closely monitor patients for lonafarnib-related adverse reactions. Resume previous lonafarnib dosage 14 days after discontinuing trofinetide. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration increased loperamide overall exposure by 1.73-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration increased loperamide overall exposure by 1.73-fold.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with trofinetide. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of meperidine with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. If trofinetide is discontinued, meperidine plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to meperidine. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with trofinetide can increase meperidine exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of meperidine.
Methadone: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of methadone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. If trofinetide is discontinued, methadone plasma concentrations can decrease resulting in reduced efficacy and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to methadone. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with trofinetide can increase methadone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of methadone.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of vasospastic adverse reactions, including cerebral and peripheral ischemia, during concomitant use of methylergonovine and trofinetide. Concomitant use may increase methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Use caution when midazolam is coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase midazolam exposure leading to prolonged sedation. Midazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with trofinetide. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and trofinetide. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and reduce the dose of nimodipine as clinically appropriate if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concurrent use may increase nimodipine exposure. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Nintedanib: (Moderate) Monitor for nintedanib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase nintedanib exposure. Nintedanib is a P-gp substrate, and a minor substrate of CYP3A and trofinetide is a dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another dual P-gp and CYP3A inhibitor increased nintedanib AUC by 60%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with trofinetide due to increased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor blood pressure closely during concurrent use of these medications. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another CYP3A inhibitor increased the AUC of nisoldipine by 30% to 45%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Consider a reduced dose of oxycodone with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. If trofinetide is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with weak CYP3A inhibitors like trofinetide can increase oxycodone exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of oxycodone. If trofinetide is discontinued, oxycodone plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to oxycodone.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and trofinetide due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp.
Pimozide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimozide and trofinetide. Concomitant use may result in elevated pimozide concentrations resulting in QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. Pimozide is CYP3A substrate, and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in posaconazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase posaconazole exposure. Posaconazole is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of trofinetide with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.8-fold.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and trofinetide due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propafenone: (Moderate) Monitor for increased propafenone toxicity if coadministered with trofinetide; concurrent use may increase propafenone exposure and therefore increase the risk of proarrhythmias. Avoid simultaneous use of propafenone and trofinetide with a CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients with CYP2D6 deficiency. Propafenone is a CYP3A and CYP2D6 substrate; trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral trofinetide. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer trofinetide at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of trofinetide is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral trofinetide. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer trofinetide at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of trofinetide is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with trofinetide due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with trofinetide; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in saquinavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase saquinavir exposure. Saquinavir is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and trofinetide due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of trofinetide. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if trofinetide must be administered. Consider a reduced dose of sufentanil injection with frequent monitoring for respiratory depression and sedation if concurrent use of trofinetide is necessary. If trofinetide is discontinued, consider increasing the sufentanil injection dose until stable drug effects are achieved and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate, and coadministration with a weak CYP3A inhibitor like trofinetide can increase sufentanil exposure resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects including fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added to a stable dose of sufentanil. If trofinetide is discontinued, sufentanil plasma concentrations will decrease resulting in reduced efficacy of the opioid and potential withdrawal syndrome in a patient who has developed physical dependence to sufentanil.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and watch for tacrolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. The dose of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Talazoparib is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with trofinetide may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tipranavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tipranavir exposure. Tipranavir is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of trofinetide with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; trofinetide may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
traMADol: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of trofinetide, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Consider a tramadol dosage reduction until stable drug effects are achieved if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Closely monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Respiratory depression from increased tramadol exposure may be fatal. Concurrent use of trofinetide, a weak CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tramadol exposure and result in greater CYP2D6 metabolism thereby increasing exposure to the active metabolite M1, which is a more potent mu-opioid agonist.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for signs of triazolam toxicity during coadministration with trofinetide. Coadministration may increase the exposure of triazolam. Triazolam is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with trofinetide. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a weak CYP3A and P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with trofinetide due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of trofinetide is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of trofinetide is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and trofinetide is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vinorelbine: (Moderate) Monitor for an earlier onset and/or increased severity of vinorelbine-related adverse reactions, including constipation and peripheral neuropathy, if coadministration with trofinetide is necessary. Vinorelbine is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with trofinetide is necessary as concurrent use may increase the exposure of warfarin leading to increased bleeding risk. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and trofinetide is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anxiety, fever, seizures
    General Information
    Central nervous system or psychiatric adverse effects reported during a clinical trial with trofinetide (n = 93) vs. placebo (n = 94) include anxiety (8% vs. 1%), fever (9% vs. 4%), and seizures (9% vs. 6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anorexia, diarrhea, vomiting
    General Information
    Diarrhea was reported in 82% of subjects treated with trofinetide (n = 93) compared to 20% of subjects given placebo (n = 94) during a clinical trial. In a 12-week, randomized study and long-term studies, 85% of trofinetide-treated subjects experienced diarrhea. In those treated with trofinetide, 49% either had persistent diarrhea or recurrence after resolution despite dose interruptions, reductions, or concomitant antidiarrheal therapy. Diarrhea severity was mild to moderate in 96% of cases. Antidiarrheal medication was used in 51% of subjects treated with trofinetide. The most common adverse reaction leading to discontinuation of treatment with trofinetide was diarrhea (15%). Ensure laxatives are discontinued before starting trofinetide. If diarrhea occurs, consider starting antidiarrheal treatment, and monitor hydration status and increase oral fluids, if needed. Interrupt, reduce dose, or discontinue trofinetide if severe diarrhea occurs or if dehydration is suspected. Other gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported with trofinetide vs. placebo include vomiting (29% vs. 12%) and anorexia (8% vs. 2%). If vomiting occurs after trofinetide administration, do not administer an additional dose; continue with the next scheduled dose. Interrupt, reduce the dose, or discontinue trofinetide if vomiting is severe or occurs despite medical management. Aspiration and aspiration pneumonia secondary to vomiting have been reported during postmarketing experience with trofinetide.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight loss
    General Information
    Weight loss of more than 7% from baseline was reported in 12% of subjects treated with trofinetide (n = 93) compared to 4% of subjects given placebo (n = 94) during a clinical trial. In long-term studies, 2.2% of subjects discontinued trofinetide because of weight loss. Monitor weight and interrupt, reduce the dosage, or discontinue trofinetide if significant weight loss occurs.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue was reported in 8% of subjects treated with trofinetide (n = 93) compared to 2% of subjects given placebo (n = 94) during a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pharyngitis
    General Information
    Naso-pharyngitis was reported in 5% of subjects treated with trofinetide (n = 93) compared to 1% of subjects given placebo (n = 94) during a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Trofinetide is an oral analog of the amino-terminal tripeptide of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) indicated for the treatment of Rett syndrome. The efficacy of trofinetide for the treatment of Rett syndrome was demonstrated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients 5 to 20 years (n = 187), in which trofinetide was compared to placebo over 12 weeks. Trofinetide significantly reduced Rett Syndrome Behaviour Questionnaire (RSBQ) scores, suggesting lesser severity in signs and symptoms of Rett syndrome with trofinetide treatment [trofinetide-placebo treatment difference -3.2 (95% CI, -5.7 to -0.6); p = 0.018]. Trofinetide also significantly reduced Clinical Global Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) scores, suggesting improvement with trofinetide treatment [trofinetide-placebo treatment difference -0.3 (95% CI, -0.5 to -0.1); p = 0.003]. Diarrhea, vomiting, and weight loss are the most common adverse reactions reported with trofinetide, and interruption, dose reduction, or discontinuation of trofinetide is necessary if severe diarrhea or vomiting, vomiting despite medical management, dehydration, or weight loss occurs. Trofinetide was FDA-approved in 2023.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The mechanism by which trofinetide exerts its effects in persons with Rett syndrome is unknown. Trofinetide is an analog of the amino-terminal tripeptide of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). Trofinetide may improve disease symptoms by normalizing neuron and glial cell dysfunction due to anti-inflammatory and trophic effects as well as normalizing protein synthesis, dendritic morphology, and neuronal signaling and enhancing antioxidant response.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The Tmax of trofinetide is approximately 2 to 3 hours after administration. Approximately 84% of the administered dose was absorbed after oral administration of trofinetide 12,000 mg. Coadministration of trofinetide with a high-fat meal reduced the trofinetide Cmax by approximately 20% and had no impact on the AUC. Trofinetide exhibits linear kinetics with no time- or dose-dependent effects on pharmacokinetic parameters. Drug exposure is dose-proportional within the studied dose range. Minimal to no accumulation was observed after multiple dose administration. Trofinetide packets for oral solution demonstrated comparable bioavailability to trofinetide oral solution in adult health subjects under fasted state. Trofinetide packets for oral solution and trofinetide oral solution demonstrated similar pharmacokinetics in clinical studies.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of trofinetide in persons with hepatic impairment have not been studied. However, hepatic impairment is not expected to impact the exposure of trofinetide because hepatic metabolism is not a significant route of elimination.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute) increased the AUC of trofinetide by approximately 80% compared to individuals with normal renal function, based on a renal impairment study in adults. Mild renal impairment (eGFR 60 to 89 mL/minute/1.73 m2) showed no significant impact on the AUC of trofinetide, according to population pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis of clinical trial data. The effect of severe renal impairment on the AUC of trofinetide has not been investigated.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    The drug exposure of trofinetide in pediatric subjects ages 2 to 4 years is similar to children older than 4 years and adults when following the recommended dosage.
  Text
  Trofinetide is administered orally. The mean apparent Vd of trofinetide in healthy adults is approximately 80 L. Plasma protein binding of trofinetide is less than 6%. Trofinetide does not undergo significant hepatic metabolism. Trofinetide is excreted mostly unchanged in urine (approximately 80% of the dose), with minor excretion in the feces. The effective elimination half-life of trofinetide is approximately 1.5 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: BCRP, BSEP, CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A, P-gp, UGT1A9, UGT2B7, UGT2B15, OAT1, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT2, MATE1, MATE2-K
Trofinetide is not a substrate of CYP450 enzymes, UGT, or major drug transporters in vitro. Trofinetide inhibits is a BCRP, BSEP, CYP3A, P-gp, UGT1A9, UGT2B7, and UGT2B15. While trofinetide inhibits CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, OAT1, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT2, MATE1 and MATE2-K, it is not expected to result in clinically significant drug interactions. Trofinetide does not inhibit OAT3 or CYP2C9.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Liquid Formulations
      Description
      Administer without regard to meals.
A gastrostomy tube may be used for administration. Doses administered via gastrojejunal (GJ) tubes must be administered through the G-port.
Oral solution
Measure and administer the oral solution using a calibrated measuring device.
Storage: Discard any unused solution after 14 days of first opening the bottle. Refrigerate before and after opening. Do not freeze.
Missed dose or vomiting after administration: If a dose is missed, administer the next dose as scheduled. Do not double doses. If vomiting occurs after trofinetide administration, do not administer an additional dose; continue with the next scheduled dose.
Powder for oral solution
Determine the correct dosage and select the appropriate packet strength and number of packets required for each dose. For individuals who require a dose less than 5,000 mg, do not use trofinetide packets. Do not use partial packets to prepare a dose.
Determine the appropriate volume of liquid within the recommended volume range based on the individual's patient factors (e.g. age, palatability).
5,000 mg = 15 to 60 mL
6,000 mg = 15 to 60 mL
8,000 mg = 25 to 120 mL
10,000 mg = 30 to 120 mL (each packet requires 15 to 60 mL)
12,000 mg = 30 to 120 mL (each packet requires 15 to 60 mL)
Measure the volume of liquid determined by using a calibrated measuring device. Use cold to room temperature water or water-based beverage (juice, tea, lemonade, limeade, or liquid hydration).
Empty the entire contents of the packet(s) into the measured liquid.
Stir until the powder is completely dissolved.
Administer the prepared oral solution immediately. Discard any prepared oral solution that is not immediately administered.
Missed dose or vomiting after administration: If a dose is missed, administer the next dose as scheduled. Do not double doses. If vomiting occurs after trofinetide administration, do not administer an additional dose; continue with the next scheduled dose.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Ensure laxatives are discontinued before trofinetide initiation.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    weighing 50 kg or more: 24,000 mg/day PO.
weighing 35 to 49 kg: 20,000 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    weighing 50 kg or more: 24,000 mg/day PO.
weighing 35 to 49 kg: 20,000 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    weighing 50 kg or more: 24,000 mg/day PO.
weighing 35 to 49 kg: 20,000 mg/day PO.
weighing 20 to 34 kg: 16,000 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    2 to 12 years weighing 50 kg or more: 24,000 mg/day PO.
2 to 12 years weighing 35 to 49 kg: 20,000 mg/day PO.
2 to 12 years weighing 20 to 34 kg: 16,000 mg/day PO.
2 to 12 years weighing 12 to 19 kg: 12,000 mg/day PO.
2 to 12 years weighing 9 to 11 kg: 10,000 mg/day PO.
1 year: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  eGFR 60 to 89 mL/minute for adults or 60 to 89 mL/minute/1.73 m2 for pediatric patients: No dosage adjustment needed.
eGFR 30 to 59 mL/minute for adults or 30 to 59 mL/minute/1.73 m2 for pediatric patients: For individuals with moderate renal impairment who require a dose less than 5,000 mg, the oral solution is recommended. Do not attempt to use partial packets to prepare a dose.
50 kg or more: 6,000 mg PO twice daily.
35 to 49 kg: 5,000 mg PO twice daily.
20 to 34 kg: 4,000 mg PO twice daily.
12 to 19 kg: 3,000 mg PO twice daily.
9 to 11 kg: 2,500 mg PO twice daily.
eGFR less than 30 mL/minute for adults or less than 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 for pediatric patients: Use is not recommended.
