=== Pertuzumab/Trastuzumab/Hyaluronidase (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5231)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase-zzxf is a combination product for subcutaneous use.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 1,200 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 30,000 units hyaluronidase (15 mL single-dose vial) subcutaneously.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards), cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, pneumonitis, pulmonary toxicity, rhinorrhea, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, infusion-related reactions, injection site reaction, hyperphosphatemia, hyperuricemia, renal failure (unspecified), tumor lysis syndrome (tls), anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, hemorrhoids, asthenia, fatigue, malaise, infection, influenza, pharyngitis, dizziness, dysgeusia, headache

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase with caution in patients with a history of heart failure, or in patients with conditions that could impair left ventricular function including...

Brand Names
  - PHESGO

Dosage Forms
  - PHESGO 1200mg-600mg-30000unit/15mL Solution for Injection (Initial Dose)
  - PHESGO 600mg-600mg-20000unit/10mL Solution for Injection (Maintenance Dose)

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive, locally advanced, inflammatory, or early-stage breast cancer (greater than 2 cm diameter or node-positive), in combination with chemotherapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Subcutaneous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          1,200 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 30,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously over approximately 8 minutes as an initial dose. Three weeks later, give 600 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously over approximately 5 minutes as maintenance therapy every 3 weeks for 3 to 6 cycles. Patients previously receiving IV pertuzumab and trastuzumab may transition to pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase therapy. If it has been less than 6 weeks since the last IV pertuzumab and trastuzumab doses, transition to standard maintenance dosing every 3 weeks (600 mg pertuzumab; 600 mg trastuzumab; 20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously). If it has been 6 weeks or more since the last IV pertuzumab and trastuzumab doses, give the initial subcutaneous dose of 1,200 mg pertuzumab; 600 mg trastuzumab; 30,000 units hyaluronidase, and resume maintenance dosing 3 weeks later. Give in combination with a standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen as follows: 1) pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus docetaxel for 4 preoperative cycles followed by 3 postoperative cycles of fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide (FEC); 2) FEC for 3 or 4 preoperative cycles followed by 3 or 4 preoperative cycles of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus docetaxel; 3) pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus docetaxel (not to exceed 75 mg/m2) and carboplatin for 6 preoperative cycles; and 4) dose-dense doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide for 4 preoperative cycles followed by 4 preoperative cycles of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus paclitaxel. Following surgery, continue pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase every 3 weeks to complete 1 year of treatment (up to 18 cycles) or until disease recurrence or unmanageable toxicity. In patients receiving an anthracycline-containing regimen, pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase should be given following completion of the anthracycline. Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase should be given prior to administration of docetaxel or paclitaxel. Observe closely for infusion-related reactions for 30 minutes after the first pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase injection and for 15 minutes after subsequent injections. The pathological complete response rate was non-inferior (59.7% vs. 59.5%) following 8 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy that included 4 cycles of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase compared with IV pertuzumab and IV trastuzumab during cycles 5 to 8 followed by surgery in HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer patients in a randomized, phase 3 trial (the FeDeriCa trial).
      Heading
      for the adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer in patients at high risk of recurrence, in combination with standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Subcutaneous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          1,200 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 30,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously over approximately 8 minutes as an initial dose. Three weeks later, give 600 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously over approximately 5 minutes as maintenance therapy every 3 weeks for a total of 1 year of treatment (up to 18 cycles) or until disease recurrence or unmanageable toxicity. Give starting on day 1 in combination with standard adjuvant anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy. In patients receiving an anthracycline-containing regimen, pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase should be given following completion of the anthracycline. Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase should be given prior to administration of docetaxel or paclitaxel. Observe closely for infusion-related reactions for 30 minutes after the first pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase injection and for 15 minutes after subsequent injections. Subcutaneous pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase had non-inferior efficacy and similar pharmacokinetic and safety data compared with IV pertuzumab and IV trastuzumab as part of neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy in HER2-positive early breast cancer patients in a randomized, phase 3 trial (the FeDeriCa trial). Additionally, subcutaneous pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase was preferred over IV pertuzumab and IV trastuzumab in 85% of patients with HER2-positive breast cancer who received adjuvant therapy after completing neoadjuvant IV pertuzumab and IV trastuzumab plus chemotherapy and surgery in a randomized, phase 2, crossover trial (the PHranceSCa trial).
      Heading
      for the treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer in patients who have not received prior anti-HER2 therapy or chemotherapy for metastatic disease, in combination with docetaxel
      Routes
        Heading
        Subcutaneous dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          1,200 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 30,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously over approximately 8 minutes as an initial dose followed by docetaxel (75 mg/m2 IV) on day 1. Three weeks later, give 600 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 20,000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously over approximately 5 minutes as maintenance therapy followed by docetaxel (75 mg/m2 IV), repeated every 3 weeks. The dose of docetaxel may be increased to 100 mg/m2 if the initial dose is well tolerated. In clinical trials, docetaxel was continued for up to 6 cycles; continue pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Observe closely for infusion-related reactions for 30 minutes after the first pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase injection and for 15 minutes after subsequent injections. Subcutaneous pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase had non-inferior efficacy and similar pharmacokinetic and safety data compared with IV pertuzumab and IV trastuzumab in a randomized, phase 3 trial (the FeDeriCa trial). At a median follow-up of 50 months, the median progression-free survival (18.7 months vs. 12.4 months) and median overall survival (56.5 months vs. 40.8 months) were significantly improved in patients who received IV pertuzumab and IV trastuzumab plus docetaxel compared with placebo and IV trastuzumab plus docetaxel in a randomized, double-blind, phase 3 trial (the CLEOPATRA trial).
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, heart failure, hypertension, thoracic radiation therapy
    General Information
    Use pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase with caution in patients with a history of heart failure, or in patients with conditions that could impair left ventricular function including coronary artery disease, uncontrolled hypertension, thoracic radiation therapy and previous anthracycline exposure. Trastuzumab and pertuzumab can both can cause cardiomyopathy including subclinical and clinical heart failure; the incidence and severity is highest in patients receiving concomitant anthracycline-containing chemotherapy. The risk of cardiac dysfunction was increased in patients aged 65 years and older compared to younger patients in clinical trials. Obtain a baseline LVEF immediately prior to initiation of therapy, every 3 months during treatment, upon completion of therapy, and every 6 months for at least 2 years after completion of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase. An interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for a decline in LVEF. The safety of continuing or resuming therapy in patients with treatment-induced left ventricular cardiac dysfunction has not been studied.
    Headline
    dyspnea at rest, pulmonary disease, pulmonary toxicity
    General Information
    Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase can cause serious and fatal pulmonary toxicity including dyspnea, interstitial pneumonitis, pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusions, noncardiogenic pulmonary edema, hypoxia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, and pulmonary fibrosis; these events may occur as sequelae of infusion reactions. Patients with symptomatic intrinsic pulmonary disease or with extensive tumor involvement of the lungs resulting in dyspnea at rest appear to have more severe toxicity. Discontinue pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase in patients who develop interstitial pneumonitis or acute respiratory distress syndrome.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase during pregnancy due to the risk of fetal harm. Apprise individuals of the potential hazard to the fetus. In postmarketing reports and published literature, use of trastuzumab during pregnancy resulted in cases of oligohydramnios and oligohydramnios sequence, manifesting as pulmonary hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and neonatal death. These events occurred with trastuzumab alone and in combination with chemotherapy. In most reports, the amniotic fluid index increased after trastuzumab was discontinued. In cases where trastuzumab treatment was later resumed, oligohydramnios recurred. Monitor patients exposed to trastuzumab during pregnancy for oligohydramnios. If oligohydramnios occurs, perform gestational age-appropriate fetal testing according to local standards of care. In animal studies, administration of pertuzumab to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys during organogenesis resulted in oligohydramnios, delayed fetal renal development, and embryo-fetal death. These effects occurred at clinically relevant exposures approximately 2.5 to 20 times higher than human exposure at the recommended dose, based on Cmax. Report pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase exposure during pregnancy, or pregnancy occurring within 7 months after the last dose, to Genentech at 1-888-835-2555.
    Headline
    embryo-fetal toxicity, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant about the reproductive risk and embryo-fetal toxicity associated with pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase. Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase and for 7 months after the last dose.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of pertuzumab, trastuzumab, or hyaluronidase in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production. Published data suggest human IgG is present in human milk but does not enter the neonatal and infant circulation in substantial amounts. Because pertuzumab and trastuzumab are large protein molecules, transfer into human milk is expected to be low. Any drug present in milk is likely to be partially degraded in the child's gastrointestinal tract, with minimal systemic absorption expected. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, the elimination half-life of pertuzumab, the 7 month wash-out period of trastuzumab, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase during pregnancy due to the risk of fetal harm. Apprise individuals of the potential hazard to the fetus. In postmarketing reports and published literature, use of trastuzumab during pregnancy resulted in cases of oligohydramnios and oligohydramnios sequence, manifesting as pulmonary hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and neonatal death. These events occurred with trastuzumab alone and in combination with chemotherapy. In most reports, the amniotic fluid index increased after trastuzumab was discontinued. In cases where trastuzumab treatment was later resumed, oligohydramnios recurred. Monitor patients exposed to trastuzumab during pregnancy for oligohydramnios. If oligohydramnios occurs, perform gestational age-appropriate fetal testing according to local standards of care. In animal studies, administration of pertuzumab to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys during organogenesis resulted in oligohydramnios, delayed fetal renal development, and embryo-fetal death. These effects occurred at clinically relevant exposures approximately 2.5 to 20 times higher than human exposure at the recommended dose, based on Cmax. Report pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase exposure during pregnancy, or pregnancy occurring within 7 months after the last dose, to Genentech at 1-888-835-2555.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of pertuzumab, trastuzumab, or hyaluronidase in human milk, their effects on the breastfed child, or their effects on milk production. Published data suggest human IgG is present in human milk but does not enter the neonatal and infant circulation in substantial amounts. Because pertuzumab and trastuzumab are large protein molecules, transfer into human milk is expected to be low. Any drug present in milk is likely to be partially degraded in the child's gastrointestinal tract, with minimal systemic absorption expected. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, the elimination half-life of pertuzumab, the 7 month wash-out period of trastuzumab, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Amide local anesthetics: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Aminosalicylate sodium, Aminosalicylic acid: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Anthracyclines: (Major) Avoid coadministration of anthracyclines and trastuzumab products due to the risk of increased cardiac dysfunction; if possible, continue to avoid for up to 7 months after the last dose of trastuzumab. If concomitant use is unavoidable, carefully monitor cardiac function. Anthracycline treatment after therapy with trastuzumab product may increase the risk of cardiac dysfunction due to the long washout period of trastuzumab.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Aspirin, ASA: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Bismuth Subsalicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
BUPivacaine Liposomal: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Carbinoxamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorcyclizine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chloroprocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Choline Salicylate; Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Clemastine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
cloZAPine: (Major) It is unclear if concurrent use of other drugs known to cause neutropenia (e.g., antineoplastic agents) increases the risk or severity of clozapine-induced neutropenia. Because there is no strong rationale for avoiding clozapine in patients treated with these drugs, consider increased absolute neutrophil count (ANC) monitoring and consult the treating oncologist.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Corticotropin, ACTH: (Minor) Corticosteroids (e.g., cortisone, corticotropin, ACTH), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Cortisone: (Minor) Corticosteroids (e.g., cortisone, corticotropin, ACTH), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
cycloPHOSphamide: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of cardiac dysfunction if coadministration of cyclophosphamide with trastuzumab is necessary as there is an increased risk of cardiotoxicity.
Cyproheptadine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
DAUNOrubicin Liposomal; Cytarabine Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of anthracyclines and trastuzumab products due to the risk of increased cardiac dysfunction; if possible, continue to avoid for up to 7 months after the last dose of trastuzumab. If concomitant use is unavoidable, carefully monitor cardiac function. Anthracycline treatment after therapy with trastuzumab product may increase the risk of cardiac dysfunction due to the long washout period of trastuzumab.
DAUNOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of anthracyclines and trastuzumab products due to the risk of increased cardiac dysfunction; if possible, continue to avoid for up to 7 months after the last dose of trastuzumab. If concomitant use is unavoidable, carefully monitor cardiac function. Anthracycline treatment after therapy with trastuzumab product may increase the risk of cardiac dysfunction due to the long washout period of trastuzumab.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of anthracyclines and trastuzumab products due to the risk of increased cardiac dysfunction; if possible, continue to avoid for up to 7 months after the last dose of trastuzumab. If concomitant use is unavoidable, carefully monitor cardiac function. Anthracycline treatment after therapy with trastuzumab product may increase the risk of cardiac dysfunction due to the long washout period of trastuzumab.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of anthracyclines and trastuzumab products due to the risk of increased cardiac dysfunction; if possible, continue to avoid for up to 7 months after the last dose of trastuzumab. If concomitant use is unavoidable, carefully monitor cardiac function. Anthracycline treatment after therapy with trastuzumab product may increase the risk of cardiac dysfunction due to the long washout period of trastuzumab.
Doxylamine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
epiRUBicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of anthracyclines and trastuzumab products due to the risk of increased cardiac dysfunction; if possible, continue to avoid for up to 7 months after the last dose of trastuzumab. If concomitant use is unavoidable, carefully monitor cardiac function. Anthracycline treatment after therapy with trastuzumab product may increase the risk of cardiac dysfunction due to the long washout period of trastuzumab.
Ester local anesthetics: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Esterified Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Estrogens: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
hydrOXYzine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
IDArubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of anthracyclines and trastuzumab products due to the risk of increased cardiac dysfunction; if possible, continue to avoid for up to 7 months after the last dose of trastuzumab. If concomitant use is unavoidable, carefully monitor cardiac function. Anthracycline treatment after therapy with trastuzumab product may increase the risk of cardiac dysfunction due to the long washout period of trastuzumab.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Magnesium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Meclizine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Mepivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Prilocaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
ROPivacaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Salicylates: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Salsalate: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Minor) Estrogens, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Sodium Iodide I-131: (Moderate) Monitor for bone marrow suppression during concomitant use of sodium iodide I-131 and antineoplastic agents. Concomitant use of bone marrow depressants may enhance the depression of the hematopoietic system caused by the use of large doses of sodium iodide I-131.
Tetracaine: (Moderate) Hyaluronidase, when used in combination with local anesthetics, hastens the onset of analgesia and reduces the swelling caused by local infiltration; this interaction is beneficial and is the reason hyaluronidase is used adjunctively in local infiltrative anesthesia techniques. However, the wider spread of the local anesthetic solution may increase the systemic absorption of the local anesthetic, which shortens the duration of anesthetic action and tends to increase the potential risk for systemic side effects.
Triprolidine: (Minor) H1-blockers (antihistamines), when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Tuberculin Purified Protein Derivative, PPD: (Moderate) Immunosuppressives may decrease the immunological response to tuberculin purified protein derivative, PPD. This suppressed reactivity can persist for up to 6 weeks after treatment discontinuation. Consider deferring the skin test until completion of the immunosuppressive therapy.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    cardiomyopathy, heart failure
    General Information
    At least 1 cardiac disorder (22%) including class I or II (1.2%) and class III or IV (0.8%) heart failure and decreased ejection fraction (3.6%) occurred in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial. Conduct a cardiac assessment including history and physical examination prior to starting pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase therapy. Assess LVEF by echocardiogram or MUGA scan prior to starting therapy and approximately every 12 weeks during therapy (including at least once during neoadjuvant therapy). Monitor for cardiomyopathy and assess LVEF every 6 months for at least 2 years after adjuvant pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase therapy. Therapy interruption may be necessary for at least 3 weeks in patients who develop treatment-related LVD. If the LVEF has not improved or has declined further and/or the patient is symptomatic at a 3-week LVEF assessment, permanently discontinue pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiomyopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, pneumonitis, pulmonary toxicity, rhinorrhea
    General Information
    Serious pulmonary toxicity was reported with pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase therapy in a clinical trial. Additionally, interstitial pneumonitis, pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusion, non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema, pulmonary insufficiency and hypoxia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and pulmonary fibrosis have been reported with IV trastuzumab therapy; some cases were fatal. Discontinue pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase therapy in patients who develop interstitial pneumonitis or ARDS. Monitor patients until these symptoms completely resolve. Respiratory adverse events including cough (15%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), epistaxis (12%), dyspnea (10%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2%), and rhinorrhea (7%) occurred in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      epistaxis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary toxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      rhinorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    fetal death, teratogenesis
    General Information
    Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase may cause fetal harm including intrauterine fetal death and birth defects/teratogenesis when administered during pregnancy. If pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase is administered during pregnancy, or if a patient becomes pregnant while receiving therapy or within 7 months following the last dose, health care providers and patients should immediately report the drug exposure to the pregnancy pharmacovigilance program at Genentech at 1-888-835-2555; patients should be apprised of the potential risks to the fetus. Cases of oligohydramnios and oligohydramnios sequence manifesting as pulmonary hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and neonatal death have been reported following exposure in pregnant women in postmarketing surveillance of IV trastuzumab. In some of these reports, the amniotic fluid index increased after trastuzumab was discontinued; oligohydramnios recurred in one patient when trastuzumab therapy was resumed. Monitor women who receive pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase during pregnancy or who become pregnant within 7 months prior to conception for oligohydramnios. If this adverse event occurs, perform fetal testing appropriate for gestational age and consistent with standards of care.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fetal death
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      teratogenesis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, infusion-related reactions, injection site reaction
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions (1.2%), administration-related reactions (21%), and infusion-related reactions (3.6%) were reported in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial. The most common reactions were injection site reaction (15%) and injection site pain (2%). Observe patients for signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity or administration-related reactions for a minimum of 30 minutes after the initial dose and 15 minutes after each maintenance dose. Consider premedication with an analgesic, antipyretic, or an antihistamine prior to subsequent doses in patients who develop a reversible grade 1 or 2 hypersensitivity reaction. Emergency medications and equipment should be available for immediate use if a reaction occurs. Discontinue therapy in patients who develop anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, or severe injection-related reactions; monitor patients until these symptoms completely resolve. Injection site reactions were reported in 13% of patients in the adjuvant setting when pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase was administered without chemotherapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      infusion-related reactions
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      injection site reaction
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperphosphatemia, hyperuricemia, renal failure (unspecified), tumor lysis syndrome (TLS)
    General Information
    Tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) was reported in postmarketing surveillance of IV pertuzumab and IV trastuzumab therapy. Symptoms may include hyperuricemia, hyperphosphatemia, and acute renal failure (unspecified). Consider additional monitoring and/or treatment for TLS as clinically indicated.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperphosphatemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperuricemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      renal failure (unspecified)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      tumor lysis syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase may exacerbate chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. The incidence of grade 3 or 4 neutropenia and febrile neutropenia was higher in patients who received IV trastuzumab plus chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone in clinical trials; the incidence of septic death was similar in both groups. Anemia (36%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6%), neutropenia (22%; grade 3 or 4, 14%), leukopenia (9%; grade 3 or 4, 2.4%), and febrile neutropenia (grade 3 or 4, 7%) were reported in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial. In addition, worsening hematologic toxicity including decreased hemoglobin level (90%; grade 3 or 4, 2.8%), decreased absolute lymphocyte count/lymphopenia (89%; grade 3 or 4, 37%), decreased total leukocyte count (82%; grade 3 or 4, 25%), decreased total absolute neutrophil count (68%; grade 3 or 4, 30%), and decreased platelet count/thrombocytopenia (27%) occurred in patients who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase in this trial. Immune thrombocytopenia was reported in postmarketing surveillance of IV pertuzumab and IV trastuzumab therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    alopecia, atopic dermatitis, erythema, nail discoloration, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), pruritus, rash, xerosis
    General Information
    Alopecia (77%), radiation skin injury (19%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), dry skin/xerosis (15%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), rash (16%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), nail discoloration (9%), nail disorder (7%), erythema (9%), atopic dermatitis (7%), palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) (6%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%), and pruritus (3.2%) were reported in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial. Radiation skin injury and pruritus were reported in 19% and 10% of patients in the adjuvant setting, respectively, when pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase was administered without chemotherapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nail discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      atopic dermatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, hemorrhoids, nausea, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea (60%; grade 3 or 4, 2%), diarrhea (60%; grade 3 or 4, 7%), stomatitis (25%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%), constipation (22%), vomiting (20%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%), decreased appetite/anorexia (17%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%), mucosal inflammation (15%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%), dyspepsia (14%), hemorrhoids (9%), upper abdominal pain (8%), and abdominal pain (9%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) were reported in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial. Diarrhea and dyspepsia were reported in 17% and 12% of patients in the adjuvant setting, respectively, when pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase was administered without chemotherapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemorrhoids
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue, malaise
    General Information
    Asthenia (31%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), fatigue (29%; grade 3 or 4, 2%), and malaise (7%) were reported in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial. Asthenia was reported in 11% of patients in the adjuvant setting when pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase was administered without chemotherapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fever
    General Information
    Fever was reported in 13% of patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral edema
    General Information
    Peripheral edema was reported in 8% of patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, influenza, pharyngitis
    General Information
    Infection including upper respiratory tract infection (11%), nasopharyngitis/pharyngitis (9%), paronychia (7%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), urinary tract infection (7%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), and influenza-like illness (5%) occurred in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Dysgeusia (17%), peripheral neuropathy (12%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), sensory peripheral neuropathy (16%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%), headache (17%), paresthesias (10%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%), and dizziness (13%) were reported in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight loss
    General Information
    Weight loss (11%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) was reported in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, muscle cramps, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Myalgia (25%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), arthralgia (24%), procedural pain (13%), back pain (10%), bone pain (7%), extremity pain (6%), muscle cramps/spasms (6%), and musculoskeletal pain (6%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) were reported in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial. Arthralgia was reported in 19% of patients in the adjuvant setting when pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase was administered without chemotherapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      muscle cramps
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    insomnia
    General Information
    Insomnia was reported in 17% of patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nephrotoxicity
    General Information
    Nephrotoxicity, specifically increased serum creatinine level, was worsened from baseline in 84% of patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial. Glomerulopathy was reported in postmarketing surveillance of IV pertuzumab and IV trastuzumab therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia
    General Information
    Hypokalemia (7%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6%) was reported in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial. Electrolyte abnormalities that were worsened from baseline in patients who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase in this trial included decreased potassium level (17%; grade 3 or 4, 5.2%), increased potassium level/hyperkalemia (13%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2%), decreased sodium level/hyponatremia (13%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%), and increased sodium level/hypernatremia (7%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypernatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (58%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6%) and AST (50%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%) levels, hypoalbuminemia (16%), and hyperbilirubinemia (9%) were worsened from baseline in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoglycemia
    General Information
    Decreased glucose level/hypoglycemia was worsened from baseline in 9% of patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    lacrimation, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Dry eye/xerophthalmia (5%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) and increased lacrimation (5%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4%) were reported in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lacrimation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hot flashes
    General Information
    Hot flashes/flush occurred in 12% of patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase plus standard anthracycline- and/or taxane-based chemotherapy as part of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy (n = 248) in a randomized trial, and in 11% of patients who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase without chemotherapy in the adjuvant setting.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    antibody formation
    General Information
    Anti-pertuzumab and anti-trastuzumab antibody formation occurred in 12.9% and 2.1% of patients who received pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase subcutaneously with concurrent neoadjuvant chemotherapy (n = 241), respectively. The incidence of anti-pertuzumab and anti-trastuzumab antibodies after intravenous administration in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy (n = 245) was 10.6% and 0.4%, respectively. Neutralizing antibodies to pertuzumab and trastuzumab occurred in 6% (n = 31) and 20% (n = 5), respectively, after subcutaneous administration and in 11.5% (n = 26) and 0% (n = 1) of patients, respectively, after intravenous administration. The presence of anti-pertuzumab and anti-trastuzumab antibodies did not have a clinically significant effect on the safety of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      antibody formation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase-zzxf is a combination product for subcutaneous use. Both pertuzumab and trastuzumab are monoclonal antibodies and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)/neu-receptor antagonists; these drugs bind to different sites on HER2. Hyaluronidase-zzxf is an endoglycosidase used to increase the dispersion and absorption of coadministered drugs when administered subcutaneously. Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase is indicated in combination with chemotherapy for the neoadjuvant treatment of patients with HER2-positive, locally advanced, inflammatory, or early-stage breast cancer or as adjuvant treatment of patients with HER2-positive early breast cancer at high risk of recurrence. It is also indicated in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer (MBC) who have not received prior anti-HER2 therapy or chemotherapy for metastatic disease. It has black box warnings for serious cardiotoxicity and pulmonary toxicity and a risk of embryo-fetal death and birth defects if used during pregnancy; use of effective contraception is necessary during and after therapy.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase is a combination product used for the treatment of human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer.
 
Pertuzumab is a humanized recombinant IgG1 monoclonal antibody that binds to the extracellular dimerization domain (subdomain II) of the human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2) protein. It blocks ligand-dependent heterodimerization of HER2 and other epidermal growth factor receptors including HER3 and HER4. Two intracellular signaling pathways, mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), are inhibited resulting in cell growth arrest and apoptosis. Pertuzumab also demonstrates antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Pertuzumab differs from trastuzumab in where it binds to HER2; pertuzumab binds to the dimerization domain and trastuzumab binds in the juxtamembrane region. Combining pertuzumab with trastuzumab has demonstrated enhanced antitumor activity in HER2-amplified breast cancer in xenograft models. Additionally, combination therapy may reduce trastuzumab resistance.
 
Trastuzumab is a humanized IgG1 kappa monoclonal antibody that selectively binds with high affinity to the extracellular domain of HER2. This inhibits ligand, independent, HER2-mediated cell proliferation and PI3K signaling. Trastuzumab-mediated antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) preferentially acts on cancer cells that overexpress HER2 compared with cancer cells that do not overexpress HER2. The overexpression of HER2 in tumor cells is closely associated with increased angiogenesis and expression of vascular epidermal growth factor (VEGF); when the VEGF pathway is inhibited, tumor growth is suppressed. In cells treated with trastuzumab, the HER2 receptor is downregulated, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27 accumulates, and cell cycle arrest occurs. Trastuzumab also inhibits the constitutive HER2 cleavage/shedding mediated by metalloproteases, which may correlate with the clinical activity of trastuzumab.
 
Hyaluronidase is an endoglycosidase used to increase dispersion and absorption of coadministered drugs when administered subcutaneously. It increases permeability of the subcutaneous tissue by depolymerizing hyaluronan, which is a polysaccharide found in the extracellular matrix of the subcutaneous tissue. Unlike the stable structural components of the interstitial matrix, hyaluronan has a half-life of approximately 0.5 days; the effects of hyaluronidase are reversible and permeability of subcutaneous tissue is restored within 24 to 48 hours. Hyaluronidase has been shown to increase the absorption rate of a trastuzumab product into systemic circulation when given in the subcutis of Gottingen Minipigs.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Subcutaneous Route
    Description
    Subcutaneously administered pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase (1,200 mg pertuzumab; 600 mg trastuzumab as an initial dose followed by 600 mg pertuzumab; 600 mg trastuzumab repeated every 3 weeks) was compared with intravenous (IV) administration of pertuzumab (840 mg as an initial dose followed by 420 mg repeated every 3 weeks) and trastuzumab (8 mg/kg as an initial dose followed 6 mg/kg repeated every 3 weeks) in a pharmacokinetic analysis from a randomized, phase 3 trial. The pertuzumab cycle 7 (pre-dose cycle 8) Cmin was 88.7 mcg/mL with subcutaneous pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase and 72.4 mcg/mL with IV pertuzumab, with a geometric mean ratio (GMR) of 1.22 (90% CI, 1.14 to 1.31). The trastuzumab cycle 7 Cmin 57.5 mcg/mL with subcutaneous pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase and 43.2 mcg/mL with IV trastuzumab, with a GMR or 1.33 (90% CI, 1.24 to 1.43). The Cmax of pertuzumab and trastuzumab were 34% and 31% lower with subcutaneous administration of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase compared to IV pertuzumab; the AUCs were 5% and 9% higher, respectively. The mean absolute bioavailability of subcutaneous pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase was 0.71 for pertuzumab (CV, 18%) and 0.77 for trastuzumab (CV, 13%); the median Tmax was 3.8 days for both pertuzumab and trastuzumab.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of pertuzumab and trastuzumab following subcutaneous administration is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Renal impairment (CrCl greater than or equal to 30 mL/min) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of pertuzumab or trastuzumab following subcutaneous administration.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (25 to 80 years) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of pertuzumab or trastuzumab following subcutaneous administration.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (Asian and non-Asian) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of pertuzumab or trastuzumab following subcutaneous administration.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight does not result in a clinically relevant change in trastuzumab exposure; dose adjustments based on body weight are not necessary. In patients weighing less than 58 kg, the mean AUC of trastuzumab in cycle 7 was approximately 33% higher in patients after subcutaneous administration of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase compared to IV administration of trastuzumab. In patients weighing more than 77 kg, the cycle 7 AUC of trastuzumab was 24 % lower after subcutaneous administration of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase compared to IV administration.
  Text
  Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase is administered subcutaneously. The volume of distribution was 2.8 L for pertuzumab and 2.9 L for trastuzumab following subcutaneous administration of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase. Pertuzumab clearance was 0.2 L/day (CV, 24%). The linear clearance of trastuzumab was 0.1 L/day (CV, 30% and the nonlinear elimination Vmax was 12 mg/day (CV, 20%) and Km 34 mg/L (CV, 39%). The terminal half-life of pertuzumab and trastuzumab was 24 days and 22 days, respectively; steady-state concentrations were achieved at cycle 7 for pertuzumab and at cycle 11 for trastuzumab.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: None
Formal clinical drug interaction studies have not been performed with pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Subcutaneous Administration
      Description
      Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase is for subcutaneous administration only; do not administer intravenously.
Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase is a ready-to-use solution and does not need to be diluted; it should be administered by a health care professional.
Do not shake the vial.
Administer pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase after the completion of the anthracycline when used in combination with an anthracycline-based regimen.
Administer pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase before docetaxel or paclitaxel when used in combination with a taxane-based regimen.
If a dose is delayed or missed and the time between 2 sequential doses is less than 6 weeks, give the maintenance dose of 600 mg pertuzumab; 600 mg trastuzumab; 20,000 units hyaluronidase per 10 mL.
If a dose is delayed or missed and the time between 2 sequential doses is 6 weeks or more, give the initial dose of 1,200 mg pertuzumab; 600 mg trastuzumab; 30,000 units hyaluronidase per 15 mL, then 3 weeks later, resume the maintenance dose every 3 weeks.
 
Preparation
Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase is compatible with stainless steel, polypropylene, polycarbonate, polyethylene, polyurethane, polyvinyl chloride, and fluorinated ethylene polypropylene.
There are 2 strengths of pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase. Verify the correct concentration has been selected prior to preparation. The vials are not interchangeable.
Initial dose: 15-mL single-dose vial containing 1,200 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 30,000 units of hyaluronidase.
Maintenance dose: 10-mL single-dose vial containing 600 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 20,000 units of hyaluronidase.
Using a transfer needle, withdraw the dose from the vial into a syringe.
Replace the transfer needle with a syringe closing cap if the dose is not used immediately.
Label the syringe with the peel-off sticker.
Discard any unused portion remaining in the vial.
Storage: If the prepared syringe solution is not used immediately, it may be stored for up to 4 hours at room temperature (20 to 25 degrees C; 68 to 77 degrees F) or up to 24 hours in the refrigerator (2 to 8 degrees C; 36 to 46 degrees F).
 
Subcutaneous Injection
Immediately prior to injection, attach a 25 to 27 gauge (3/8 to 5/8 inch) hypodermic injection needle to the syringe to avoid needle clogging.
Inject 15 mL of 1,200 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 30,000 units (initial dose) subcutaneously over 8 minutes.
Inject 10 mL of 600 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 20,000 units (maintenance dose) subcutaneously over 5 minutes.
Alternate subcutaneous injection sites between the left and right thigh only; give the new injection at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the previous site on healthy skin.
Do not inject in areas where the skin is red, bruised, tender, or hard.
Do not split the dose between 2 syringes or between 2 sites of administration.
Do not administer other subcutaneous medications at the same site.
Observe patients for signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity or administration-related reactions for a minimum of 30 minutes after the initial dose and 15 minutes after each maintenance dose; emergency medications and equipment should be available for immediate use if a reaction occurs.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Pertuzumab; trastuzumab; hyaluronidase is a clear to opalescent, and colorless to a slightly brownish solution.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    1,200 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 30,000 units hyaluronidase (15 mL single-dose vial) subcutaneously.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    1,200 mg pertuzumab, 600 mg trastuzumab, and 30,000 units hyaluronidase (15 mL single-dose vial) subcutaneously.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy not established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
