=== Pretomanid (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5157)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Pretomanid is an oral nitroimidazooxazine antimycobacterial indicated for the treatment of adults with pulmonary extensively drug-resistant (XDR), treatment-intolerant, or nonresponsive multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB) as part of a combination regimen with bedaquiline and linezolid.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 200 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, hypoesthesia, hyporeflexia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, blurred vision, optic neuritis, visual impairment, acne vulgaris, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, vesicular rash, xerosis, dysgeusia, weight loss, arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, dizziness, headache, insomnia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Avoid ethanol ingestion and hepatotoxic agents, including herbal supplements, during pretomanid therapy, especially in individuals with hepatic failure. Hepatic adverse events have been reported with the combination of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid.

Dosage Forms
  - Pretomanid 200mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        200 mg PO once daily. The FDA-approved duration for pulmonary MDR-TB with bedaquiline and linezolid is 26 weeks, which may be extended beyond 26 weeks if needed.
        Heading
        Adolescents† 14 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        200 mg PO once daily.
    Heading
    For the treatment of drug-resistant tuberculosis infection, including multidrug-resistant tuberculosis infection (MDR-TB) or extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis infection (XDR-TB), as part of a combination regimen

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    ethanol ingestion, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Avoid ethanol ingestion and hepatotoxic agents, including herbal supplements, during pretomanid therapy, especially in individuals with hepatic failure. Hepatic adverse events have been reported with the combination of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver tenderness, and hepatomegaly) and liver function tests (AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin) at baseline, at 2 weeks, and then monthly and as needed during therapy. If evidence of new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, test for viral hepatitides and discontinue other hepatotoxic medications. Interrupt the entire treatment regimen if aminotransferase elevations are accompanied by total bilirubin elevations more than 2 times the upper limit of normal (ULN); aminotransferase elevations are more than 5 times the ULN and persist beyond 2 weeks; or aminotransferase elevations are more than 8 times the ULN.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use
    General Information
    Pretomanid used in the combination regimen with bedaquiline and linezolid is contraindicated in individuals for whom bedaquiline and/or linezolid are contraindicated. Additional warnings and precautions related to bedaquiline and linezolid also apply to their use in combination with pretomanid.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the use of pretomanid during pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. Active tuberculosis during pregnancy is associated with adverse outcomes, including maternal anemia, cesarean delivery, preterm birth, low birth weight, birth asphyxia, and perinatal mortality. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of pretomanid to rats during organogenesis resulted in increased post-implantation loss at maternally toxic doses, corresponding to approximately 4 times the exposure observed at the recommended human dose.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with pretomanid. Pretomanid may cause male infertility based on observations from animal studies.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use pretomanid with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of pretomanid in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. Pretomanid is present in the milk of lactating rats. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate data on the use of pretomanid during pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. Active tuberculosis during pregnancy is associated with adverse outcomes, including maternal anemia, cesarean delivery, preterm birth, low birth weight, birth asphyxia, and perinatal mortality. In animal reproduction studies, oral administration of pretomanid to rats during organogenesis resulted in increased post-implantation loss at maternally toxic doses, corresponding to approximately 4 times the exposure observed at the recommended human dose.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with pretomanid. Pretomanid may cause male infertility based on observations from animal studies.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with ibuprofen, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of pretomanid and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of pretomanid. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Allopurinol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with allopurinol, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with pretomanid due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a BCRP inhibitor.
Amiodarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with amiodarone, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with amobarbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; amobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Atogepant: (Major) Limit the dose of atogepant to 10 or 30 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine or 30 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase atogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Atogepant is a substrate of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 and pretomanid is an OATP inhibitor. Coadministration with an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor resulted in a 2.85-fold increase in atogepant overall exposure and a 2.23-fold increase in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Auranofin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with auranofin, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
azaTHIOprine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with azathioprine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Aztreonam; Avibactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in avibactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avibactam exposure. Avibactam is an OAT3 substrate and pretomanid is a OAT3 inhibitor.
Baricitinib: (Major) Coadministration of baricitinib with pretomanid is not recommended due to the potential for increased baricitinib exposure. Baricitinib is an OAT3 substrate and pretomanid is a OAT3 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of another strong OAT3 inhibitor increased baricitinib exposure by 2-fold.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with bexarotene as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with bosentan as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Brincidofovir: (Moderate) Postpone the administration of pretomanid for at least three hours after brincidofovir administration and increase monitoring for brincidofovir-related adverse reactions (i.e., elevated hepatic enzymes and bilirubin, diarrhea, other gastrointestinal adverse events) if concomitant use of brincidofovir and pretomanid is necessary. Brincidofovir is an OATP1B3 substrate and pretomanid is an OATP1B3 inhibitor. In a drug interaction study, the mean AUC and Cmax of brincidofovir increased by 374% and 269%, respectively, when administered with another OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Busulfan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with busulfan, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with butalbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with carbamazepine as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy; concurrent use may also increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
cefTAZidime; Avibactam: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in avibactam-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase avibactam exposure. Avibactam is an OAT3 substrate and pretomanid is a OAT3 inhibitor.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with cenobamate as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with ibuprofen, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with chlorpromazine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-glycoprotein substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and pretomanid due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with dabrafenib as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Dantrolene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with dantrolene, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with quinidine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Diclofenac: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with diclofenac, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with diclofenac, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with ibuprofen, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Disulfiram: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with disulfiram, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase the exposure of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pretomanid may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Drospirenone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with pretomanid. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of pretomanid. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of pretomanid; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with efavirenz as concurrent use decreased pretomanid exposure by 66% which may lead to decreased efficacy; concurrent use may also increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with efavirenz as concurrent use decreased pretomanid exposure by 66% which may lead to decreased efficacy; concurrent use may also increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pretomanid may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with efavirenz as concurrent use decreased pretomanid exposure by 66% which may lead to decreased efficacy; concurrent use may also increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pretomanid may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with elagolix as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with elagolix as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%. (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pretomanid may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pretomanid may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pretomanid may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with encorafenib as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A substrate; encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with pretomanid due to the risk for increased enasartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with enzalutamide as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with erythromycin, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with eslicarbazepine as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol while taking pretomanid due to an increased risk for hepatotoxicity.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with etravirine as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; etravirine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with fexinidazole as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A substrate; fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Fidanacogene Elaparvovec: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fidanacogene elaparvovec and pretomanid. Both medications have been associated with hepatic injury and concomitant use may increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Hepatic injury may also decrease the efficacy of fidanacogene elaparvovec.
Floxuridine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with floxuridine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Flutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with flutamide, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with fosphenytoin as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy; concurrent use may also increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and pretomanid as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
hydrALAZINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with hydralazine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with hydralazine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with ibuprofen, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with ibuprofen, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with ibuprofen, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with ibuprofen, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
inFLIXimab: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with infliximab, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Interferon Alfa-2b: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with interferon alfa, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Interferon Alfa-n3: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with interferon alfa, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Interferon Beta-1a: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with interferon beta, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Interferon Beta-1b: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with interferon beta, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Isoniazid, INH: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with isoniazid, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with ketoconazole, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pretomanid may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; pretomanid may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with ketoconazole, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with lorlatinib as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with lumacaftor; ivacaftor as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with lumacaftor; ivacaftor as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with pretomanid. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mercaptopurine, 6-MP: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with mercaptopurine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with methohexital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; methohexital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Methotrexate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with methotrexate, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity; methotrexate exposure may also increase. Monitor for methotrexate-related adverse events, such as myelosuppression, and evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. Consider methotrexate dose reduction if needed. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications. Pretomanid inhibits the OAT3 transporter in vitro, and methotrexate is a substrate of OAT3.
Methyldopa: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with methyldopa, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Minocycline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with minocycline, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with mitotane as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Modafinil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with modafinil as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with nafcillin as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with pretomanid. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and pretomanid. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nitrofurantoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with nitrofurantoin, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Norethindrone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Norgestrel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with rifabutin as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Oral Contraceptives: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with pacritinib as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A substrate; pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and pretomanid due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit P-gp or BCRP.
Peginterferon Alfa-2a: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with peginterferon alfa-2a, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with peginterferon alfa-2b, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Peginterferon beta-1a: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with peginterferon beta-1a, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with pexidartinib as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Concurrent use may also increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with phenobarbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with phenobarbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with phenytoin as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy; concurrent use may also increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in posaconazole-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase posaconazole exposure. Posaconazole is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pretomanid with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 81%.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with primidone as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and pretomanid due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Propylthiouracil, PTU: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with propylthiouracil, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Pyrazinamide, PZA: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with pyrazinamide, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
quiNIDine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with quinidine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral pretomanid. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer pretomanid at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of pretomanid is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than seven days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral pretomanid. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer pretomanid at least six hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of pretomanid is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than seven days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with repotrectinib. Concomitant use may decrease pretomanid exposure and efficacy and may increase repotrectinib exposure and the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Pretomanid is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor; repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Resmetirom: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of resmetirom and pretomanid due to the risk for increased resmetirom exposure which may increase the risk for resmetirom-related adverse effects. Resmetirom is an OATP1B3 substrate and pretomanid is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with rifabutin as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with rifampin as concurrent use decreased pretomanid exposure by 66% in a drug interaction study. Pretomanid efficacy may decrease; concurrent use may also increase the risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with rifapentine as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Riluzole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with riluzole, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with pretomanid; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a BCRP inhibitor.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a BCRP inhibitor.
Saquinavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in saquinavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase saquinavir exposure. Saquinavir is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with secobarbital as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; secobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral contraceptives, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and pretomanid due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of pretomanid. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sodium Phenylbutyrate; Taurursodiol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol and pretomanid. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol. Sodium phenylbutyrate; taurursodiol is an OATP1B3 substrate and pretomanid is an OATP1B3 inhibitor.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with sotorasib as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 35%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with St. John's Wort as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
sulfADIAZINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with sulfadiazine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with sulfamethoxazole, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
sulfaSALAzine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with sulfasalazine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Sulindac: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with sulindac, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in sulopenem-related adverse effects (i.e., diarrhea, nausea) if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase sulopenem exposure. Sulopenem is an OAT3 substrate and pretomanid is an OAT3 inhibitor.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a P-gp and BCRP substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with pretomanid may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Testosterone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with testosterone, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Thioguanine, 6-TG: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with thioguanine, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in tipranavir-related adverse reactions if coadministration with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tipranavir exposure. Tipranavir is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; pretomanid may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Oral administration within 4 hours of another P-gp inhibitor increased the dose-normalized AUC of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2-fold to 3-fold compared to oral topotecan alone.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with pretomanid. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor.
Vadadustat: (Moderate) Monitor for too large or too rapid an increase in hemoglobin response and an increase in vadadustat-related adverse effects if concomitant use with pretomanid is necessary. Concomitant use may increase vadadustat exposure. Vadadustat is an OAT3 substrate and pretomanid is an OAT3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OAT3 inhibitor increased vadadustat overall exposure by approximately 1.75-fold.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with valproic acid, especially in patients with impaired hepatic function, due to increased risk for hepatotoxicity. Monitor for evidence of hepatotoxicity if coadministration is necessary. If new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, discontinue hepatotoxic medications.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with pretomanid due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Resume the original venetoclax dose 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of pretomanid. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of pretomanid is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of pretomanid is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and pretomanid is a P-gp inhibitor.
Zavegepant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zavegepant and pretomanid. Concomitant use may increase zavegepant exposure and the risk for zavegepant-related adverse effects. Zavegepant is an OATP1B3 substrate and pretomanid is an OATP1B3 inhibitor. Concomitant use with another OATP1B3 inhibitor increased zavegepant overall exposure by 2.3-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: Adverse reactions were reported in patients treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid unless otherwise stated.
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    In clinical trials, elevated hepatic enzymes, including increased ALT, increased AST, drug-induced liver injury or hepatotoxicity, or abnormal hepatic function, were reported in 24% to 28% of subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. All subjects who experienced increased transaminases were able to continue therapy and complete the full course of treatment, except for 1 subject who died due to pneumonia and sepsis. Increases in ALT were reported as more than 3 and up to 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) in 7% to 8% of subjects, as more than 5 and up to 8 times the ULN in 4% of subjects, and more than 8 times the ULN in 1% to 2% of subjects. Increases in AST were reported as more than 3 and up to 5 times the ULN in 5% of subjects, more than 5 and up to 8 times the ULN in 2% of subjects, and more than 8 times the ULN in 1% to 2% of subjects. Increases in bilirubin (hyperbilirubinemia) were reported as more than 1 and up to 2 times the ULN in 2% to 5% of subjects and more than 2 times the ULN in 1% to 2% of subjects. An increased gamma-glutamyltransferase was reported in 13% of subjects. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., fatigue, anorexia, upset stomach, jaundice, dark urine, liver tenderness, and hepatomegaly) and liver function tests (AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin) at baseline, at 2 weeks, and then monthly and as needed during therapy. If evidence of new or worsening hepatic dysfunction occurs, test for viral hepatitides and discontinue other hepatotoxic medications. Interrupt the entire treatment regimen if aminotransferase elevations are accompanied by total bilirubin elevations more than 2 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), aminotransferase elevations are more than 5 times the ULN and persist beyond 2 weeks, or aminotransferase elevations are more than 8 times the ULN.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Myelosuppression, including anemia (31% to 37%), leukopenia (less than 5%), thrombocytopenia (less than 5%), pancytopenia, and neutropenia (7% to 8%), has been reported with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Myelosuppression is a known adverse reaction of linezolid. In clinical trials, the majority of cytopenias began after 2 weeks of treatment with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. When linezolid dosing, as part of the combination regimen, was reduced, interrupted, or discontinued, the observed hematologic abnormalities were reversible. Hemoglobin of 7.9 mg/dL or less was reported in 6% of subjects, absolute neutrophil count of 749/mm3 or less occurred in 5% of subjects, and platelet count of 49,999/mm3 or less was reported in 2% of subjects. Anemia can be life-threatening. Serious cytopenias occurred in 3 subjects, including neutropenia in 1 subject and anemia in 2 subjects. All 3 serious reactions resulted in the interruption of linezolid or all components of the combination regimen, and all resolved. Monitor complete blood counts at a minimum at baseline, at 2 weeks, and then monthly in individuals receiving linezolid as part of the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Consider decreasing linezolid to one-half the initial dose or interrupting linezolid dosing in individuals who develop or have worsening myelosuppression.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoesthesia, hyporeflexia, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy has been reported with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Neuropathy is a known adverse reaction of long-term linezolid use and is generally reversible or improved with appropriate monitoring and interruption, dose reduction, or discontinuation of linezolid. When improvement in peripheral neuropathy is observed, consider resuming linezolid at one-half the initial dose. In clinical trials, peripheral neuropathy, including burning sensation, hypoesthesia, hyporeflexia, paresthesias, peripheral motor neuropathy, peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy, or peripheral sensory neuropathy, was reported in 22% to 81% of subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. In an open-label trial, most of these adverse reactions (64%) occurred after 8 weeks of treatment and resulted in interruption, dose reduction, or discontinuation of linezolid. Severe, moderate, and mild peripheral neuropathy occurred in 22%, 32%, and 26% of subjects, respectively. No adverse reaction related to peripheral neuropathy led to a discontinuation of the entire study regimen. In a randomized clinical trial, 17 (38%) subjects experienced peripheral neuropathy in the 1,200 mg 26-week treatment group; 1 of these reactions led to treatment discontinuation. In the 600 mg 26-week treatment group, 10 (22%) subjects experienced peripheral neuropathy, and none required linezolid treatment interruption or treatment discontinuation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoesthesia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyporeflexia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blurred vision, optic neuritis, visual impairment
    General Information
    Optic neuritis has been reported with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Neuropathy is a known adverse reaction of long-term linezolid use and is generally reversible or improved with appropriate monitoring and interruption, dose reduction, or discontinuation of linezolid. After 16 weeks of treatment, 2 study subjects (2%) developed optic neuropathy. Both were serious, confirmed on retinal examination as optic neuropathy/neuritis, and resulted in the discontinuation of linezolid. Both adverse reactions resolved. In clinical trials, visual impairment, including blurred vision or reduced visual acuity, was reported in 8% of subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Monitor visual function in all individuals receiving the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. If symptoms of visual impairment occur, interrupt linezolid dosing and obtain prompt ophthalmologic evaluation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      optic neuritis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    QT prolongation has been reported with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid and is a known adverse reaction of bedaquiline. In clinical trials, QT prolongation was reported in 6% of subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Obtain an electrocardiogram (ECG) before starting treatment, and at least, 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting treatment with the combination of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Monitor serum potassium, calcium, and magnesium concentrations if QT prolongation is detected. Discontinue the combination of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid if the individual develops clinically significant ventricular arrhythmia or a QTcF interval of more than 500 ms (confirmed by repeat ECG). If syncope occurs, obtain ECG to detect QT prolongation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, maculopapular rash, pruritus, rash, vesicular rash, xerosis
    General Information
    In clinical trials, acne vulgaris, including dermatitis acneiform, was reported in 13% to 29% of subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Rash, including erythematous rash, maculopapular rash, papular rash, or vesicular rash, was reported in 19% of subjects. Pruritus, including generalized pruritus or pruritic rash, occurred in 16% of subjects. Xerosis was noted in 5% of subjects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vesicular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, gastritis, nausea, vomiting, weight loss
    General Information
    In clinical trials, gastrointestinal adverse events reported in subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid include nausea (30%), vomiting (26%), dyspepsia (19%), decreased appetite (16%), abdominal pain (14%), including lower and upper abdominal pain or abdominal tenderness, abnormal weight loss (7%), diarrhea (9%), constipation (6%), gastritis (6%), and dysgeusia (less than 5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastritis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    lactic acidosis
    General Information
    Lactic acidosis has been reported with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid and is a known adverse reaction of linezolid. Immediately evaluate individuals with recurrent nausea and vomiting, including evaluation of bicarbonate and lactic acid concentrations. Consider interruption of linezolid or the entire combination regimen.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      lactic acidosis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    In clinical trials, musculoskeletal pain, including arthralgia, back pain, costochondritis, myalgia, or pain in extremity, was reported in 22% of subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    dizziness, headache, insomnia, seizures
    General Information
    In clinical trials, nervous system adverse events reported in subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid include headache (22%), insomnia (6%), dizziness (less than 5%), and seizures (less than 5%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, hemoptysis
    General Information
    In clinical trials, respiratory adverse events reported in subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid include pleuritic pain (14%), hemoptysis (11%), and cough (8%), including productive cough.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hemoptysis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, influenza
    General Information
    In clinical trials, lower respiratory tract infection, including bronchitis, influenza, or pneumonia, was reported in 15% of subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      influenza
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    hyperamylasemia, pancreatitis
    General Information
    In clinical trials, pancreatitis was reported in less than 5% of subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Hyperamylasemia or increased amylase (10%) and hyperlipasemia or increased lipase (6%) were also reported. Lipase concentrations more than 2 times the upper limit of normal were reported in 5% of subjects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperamylasemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia
    General Information
    In clinical trials, hypoglycemia was reported in 8% of subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid. Additional laboratory abnormalities that were reported in less than 5% of subjects included increased serum creatine phosphokinase, increased serum creatinine, increased serum alkaline phosphatase, hypomagnesemia, hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, hyperkalemia, and hyponatremia.f
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyperkalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypoglycemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    In clinical trials, hypertension or increased blood pressure was reported in 9% of subjects treated with the combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and linezolid.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Pretomanid may cause male infertility. Reduced fertility and/or testicular toxicity were observed in male rats and mice treated with oral pretomanid. These effects were associated with hormonal changes, including decreased serum inhibin B and increased serum follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Pretomanid is an oral nitroimidazooxazine antimycobacterial indicated for the treatment of adults with pulmonary extensively drug-resistant (XDR), treatment-intolerant, or nonresponsive multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB) as part of a combination regimen with bedaquiline and linezolid. Pretomanid is not indicated for the treatment of drug-sensitive tuberculosis, latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, extra-pulmonary M. tuberculosis infection, or MDR-TB that is not treatment-intolerant or nonresponsive to standard therapy. Safety and effectiveness have not been established for use in combination with drugs other than bedaquiline and linezolid. Approval is based on limited safety and efficacy data from a single open-label study. Because it is used in the combination regimen with bedaquiline and linezolid, pretomanid is also contraindicated in patients for whom bedaquiline and/or linezolid are contraindicated.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Pretomanid is a nitroimidazooxazine antimycobacterial. It kills actively replicating Mycobacterium tuberculosis by inhibiting mycolic acid biosynthesis, thereby blocking cell wall production. Under anaerobic conditions, against non-replicating bacteria, pretomanid acts as a respiratory poison after nitric oxide release. All of these activities require nitro-reduction of pretomanid within the mycobacterial cell by the deazaflavin-dependent nitroreductase, Ddn, which is dependent on the reduced form of the cofactor F420. Reduction of F420 is accomplished by the F420-dependent glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, Fgd1.
 
In a clinical study, the baseline pretomanid MIC for M. tuberculosis ranged from 0.06 to 1 mcg/mL.
 
Mutations in M. tuberculosis genes (i.e., ddn, fgd1, fbiA, fbiB, and fbiC) have been associated with pretomanid resistance. The products of these genes are involved in bioreductive activation of pretomanid within the bacterial cell. Not all isolates with increased minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) have mutations in these genes, suggesting the existence of another mechanism of resistance. Cross-resistance with pretomanid with other compounds in the same class has been observed.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Pretomanid AUC and Cmax are approximately dose-proportional over a range of single oral doses from 50 to 200 mg. At single doses more than 200 mg and up to 1,000 mg, AUC and Cmax increased in a less than dose-proportional manner. Steady-state plasma concentrations are achieved approximately 4 to 6 days after multiple dose administration of 200 mg. At steady-state with 200 mg PO once daily in a fasted state, AUC is 30.2 mcg x hr/mL, Cmax is 1.7 mcg/mL, and Tmax is 4.5 hours. Administration with a high-fat, high-calorie meal increased mean Cmax by 76% and mean AUC by 88% as compared with a fasted state.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of pretomanid is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of pretomanid is unknown.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of pretomanid were observed based on gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of pretomanid were observed based on race.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of pretomanid were observed based on body weight.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Pulmonary Tuberculosis Status
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of pretomanid were observed based on pulmonary tuberculosis status, extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis infection (XDR-TB) or treatment-intolerant or nonresponsive multidrug-resistant tuberculosis infection (MDR-TB).
 
HIV Status
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of pretomanid were observed based on HIV status.
  Text
  Pretomanid is administered orally. The plasma protein binding of pretomanid is approximately 86.4%. The mean volume of distribution (Vd/F) after a single pretomanid dose is 180 L in a fasted state and 97 L in a fed state.
 
Pretomanid is metabolized by multiple reductive and oxidative pathways, with no single pathway considered as major. In healthy adult males receiving 1,100 mg of oral radiolabeled pretomanid, a mean of 53% of the dose was excreted in urine and 38% in feces, primarily as metabolites; approximately 1% of the radioactive dose was excreted in the urine as unchanged pretomanid. The mean half-life ranges from 16.9 to 17.4 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, OAT3
In vitro studies demonstrate that CYP3A4 is responsible for up to approximately 20% of the metabolism of pretomanid and that pretomanid significantly inhibits the OAT3 transporter.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Administer by directly observed therapy (DOT).
Emphasize the need for compliance with the full course of therapy to patients.
Use in combination with bedaquiline and linezolid.
If the combination regimen is interrupted by a healthcare provider for safety reasons, missed doses can be made up at the end of treatment; do not make up doses of linezolid alone missed due to linezolid adverse reactions.
If pretomanid or bedaquiline is discontinued, discontinue the entire combination regimen. If linezolid is permanently discontinued during the initial 4 consecutive weeks of treatment, discontinue the entire combination regimen. If linezolid is discontinued after the initial 4 weeks of consecutive treatment, continue pretomanid and bedaquiline therapy.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Swallow tablet whole with water.
For individuals with swallowing difficulties, use 1 of the following 2 methods:
Crush and suspend tablets
Crush and suspend the tablet in approximately 5 mL of room temperature water in a drinking cup and mix well by vigorous stirring.
Administer the contents of the cup immediately.
Rinse cup with an additional 5 mL of water and administer immediately to ensure no tablet residue is left in the cup.
Storage: Do not store the mixture for later use.
Soak and crush tablets
Soak the tablet for 4 to 5 minutes in approximately 5 mL of room temperature water in a drinking cup and crush any remaining solid.
Mix well by vigorous stirring.
Administer the contents of the cup immediately.
Rinse cup with an additional 5 mL of water and administer immediately to ensure no tablet residue is left in the cup.
Storage: Do not store the mixture for later use.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Administer with food.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    200 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
