=== Safinamide (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 2914)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Safinamide is a selective and reversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO) Type B.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 100 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anxiety, drowsiness, dyskinesia, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, psychosis, sudden sleep onset, hypertension, hypertensive crisis, orthostatic hypotension, dyspnea, edema, rash (unspecified)

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. hypertension Safinamide may cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension. Monitoring is recommended, especially during initiation, and dosage adjustments may be needed for...

Brand Names
  - Xadago

Dosage Forms
  - Xadago 100mg Tablet
  - XADAGO 50mg Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        50 mg PO once daily, initially. After 2 weeks, may increase the dose to 100 mg PO once daily based on clinical response and tolerability. Max: 100 mg/day; higher doses have not been shown to provide additional benefit and increase the risk for adverse reactions. To discontinue at 100 mg/day, reduce dose to 50 mg/day for 1 week before stopping. Safinamide has not been shown to be effective as monotherapy for the treatment of Parkinson disease.
    Heading
    For the treatment of "off" episodes in Parkinson disease as an adjunct to carbidopa/levodopa

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Safinamide may cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension. Monitoring is recommended, especially during initiation, and dosage adjustments may be needed for sustained hypertension. Safinamide use at the recommended doses does not require dietary tyramine restrictions; however, high-tyramine foods (greater than 150 mg), such as certain aged or fermented foods, can cause severe hypertension. Patients should avoid high-tyramine foods and alcohol (e.g., tap beers) to reduce this risk.  It is important to review drug interactions which may increase the risk of hypertensive crisis when combined with safinamide, such as certain sympathomimetic agents. Safinamide is a selective MAO-B inhibitor at the recommended dosages of 50 mg or 100 mg per day. Selectivity for inhibiting MAO-B decreases above the recommended daily dosages; dosing should not exceed recommended doses. Patients should seek medical attention if they experience symptoms like severe headache, shortness of breath, palpitations, or chest pain suggestive of a hypertensive crisis.
    Headline
    activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery, sleep disorder
    General Information
    People treated with safinamide and other dopaminergic agents have reported drowsiness and episodes of sudden sleep onset, sometimes without warning, leading to accidents. These events can occur even after more than a year of treatment and are more common in individuals with pre-existing somnolence, such as those taking concomitant CNS depressants and people with a sleep disorder. These symptoms may go unnoticed unless specifically asked; regularly assess safinamide recipients for drowsiness and somnolence. Patients should be informed of the risk of sudden sleep onset before starting therapy and advised to avoid hazardous activities, especially if they have sleep disorders, are taking CNS depressants, or consume alcohol. Those who experience sudden sleep onset episodes should avoid driving or operating machinery and other activities requiring coordination and concentration while taking safinamide. For some people, discontinuation may be necessary. There is insufficient information to establish if dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaging in activities of daily living.
    Headline
    psychotic disorder
    General Information
    People with a major psychotic disorder should ordinarily not be treated with safinamide due to the risk of exacerbating psychosis. Use of safinamide will increase central dopaminergic tone, which may exacerbate psychotic symptoms. In addition, certain medications used to treat psychosis may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson disease and may decrease the effectiveness of safinamide. Patients should contact their care team if they experience hallucinations or psychotic-like behaviors while receiving safinamide, and the provider should consider dose reduction or cessation of treatment.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Plasma concentrations of safinamide are increased in people with hepatic impairment. Safinamide is contraindicated in people with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. A reduced maximum daily dosage is recommended in people with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). If a patient taking safinamide progresses from moderate to severe hepatic impairment, treatment with safinamide should be discontinued. No dosage adjustments are required in people with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A).
    Headline
    albinism, retinal disease, uveitis
    General Information
    Periodically monitor for visual changes in patients with a history of retinal degeneration, age-related macular degeneration, uveitis, inherited retinal conditions or family history of hereditary retinal disease (e.g., retinitis pigmentosa), albinism, or any active retinal disease or retinopathy (e.g., diabetic retinopathy). Retinal degeneration and loss of photoreceptor cells were observed in albino and pigmented rats administered safinamide orally in toxicity studies of up to 6 months in duration. Retinal scarring and cataracts were observed at all doses tested in albino rats administered safinamide orally for 2 years. Investigative studies were not able to identify a mechanism underlying the retinal toxicity; the relevance to humans is unknown.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate or well-controlled studies of safinamide use during human pregnancy. However, animal studies indicate that safinamide may cause fetal harm. Developmental toxicity, including teratogenic effects, were observed when safinamide was administered to animals during pregnancy at clinically relevant doses. Developmental toxicity was observed at safinamide doses lower than those used clinically when the drug was administered during pregnancy with levodopa; carbidopa. In a rat pre-and postnatal development study, oral administration of mid and high doses of safinamide throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in skin discoloration of the offspring, presumably from hepatobiliary toxicity, and decreased body weight and increased postnatal mortality in offspring occurred at the highest dose tested.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    In general, avoid the use of safinamide during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of safinamide in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. In animal studies, skin discoloration, presumably caused by hyperbilirubinemia resulting from hepatobiliary toxicity, was observed in rat pups indirectly exposed to safinamide through milk during the lactation period. In addition, safinamide has the potential to interfere with proper lactation since similar agents, such as rasagiline and selegiline, can inhibit prolactin secretion. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate or well-controlled studies of safinamide use during human pregnancy. However, animal studies indicate that safinamide may cause fetal harm. Developmental toxicity, including teratogenic effects, were observed when safinamide was administered to animals during pregnancy at clinically relevant doses. Developmental toxicity was observed at safinamide doses lower than those used clinically when the drug was administered during pregnancy with levodopa; carbidopa. In a rat pre-and postnatal development study, oral administration of mid and high doses of safinamide throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in skin discoloration of the offspring, presumably from hepatobiliary toxicity, and decreased body weight and increased postnatal mortality in offspring occurred at the highest dose tested.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    In general, avoid the use of safinamide during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of safinamide in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effects on milk production. In animal studies, skin discoloration, presumably caused by hyperbilirubinemia resulting from hepatobiliary toxicity, was observed in rat pups indirectly exposed to safinamide through milk during the lactation period. In addition, safinamide has the potential to interfere with proper lactation since similar agents, such as rasagiline and selegiline, can inhibit prolactin secretion. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the patient's clinical need for treatment, and any potential adverse effects on the breast-fed child from the medication or from the patient's underlying medical condition.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
ALFentanil: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Amitriptyline: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Amoxapine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with amoxapine due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of amoxapine.
Amphetamine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with amphetamines due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as amphetamines. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Amphetamine; Dextroamphetamine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with amphetamines due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as amphetamines. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Amphetamines: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with amphetamines due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as amphetamines. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Anxiolytics; Sedatives; and Hypnotics: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as epinephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and epinephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Asenapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Atomoxetine: (Contraindicated) The use of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (such as atomoxetine) with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. At least 2 weeks should elapse between the discontinuation of a drug with MAO inhibiting activity and the start of selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or vice-versa. Selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors potentiate certain catecholamines by inhibiting neuronal reuptake. Reactions with MAOIs may include confusion, seizures, and severe hypertension as well as less severe symptoms.
atypical antipsychotic: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Belladonna; Opium: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Benzodiazepines: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Major) Concurrent use of intravenous (IV) methylene blue and MAOIs such as safinamide should generally be avoided due to the potential for serotonin syndrome. If emergent treatment with methylene blue is required in a patient receiving an MAOI it is advisable to discontinue the MAOI and monitor the patient for symptoms of CNS toxicity for two weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. During non-emergent use of methylene blue, it is advisable to discontinue the MAOI at least 2 weeks prior to methylene blue treatment, but also taking into consideration the half-life of the MAOI being discontinued. Because safinamide is a selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibitor at manufacturer recommended doses, an interaction may be less likely to occur than with other traditional MAOIs. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A). Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of IV methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in patients receiving serotonergic agents.
Benzphetamine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with amphetamines due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as amphetamines. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Brexpiprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as epinephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and epinephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Buprenorphine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Butorphanol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Cariprazine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Cenobamate: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and safinamide. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as safinamide, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with safinamide should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with safinamide should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
chlordiazePOXIDE: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Clidinium: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Citalopram: (Major) The concurrent use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is generally avoided; however, the manufacturer of safinamide recommends monitoring for serotonin syndrome and using the lowest effective dose of the SSRI during concurrent use. During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide, 1 case of serotonin syndrome occurred during co-administration with an SSRI. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
clomiPRAMINE: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Codeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Cyclobenzaprine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with cyclobenzaprine due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of cyclobenzaprine.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Desipramine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Desvenlafaxine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of an SNRI.
Deutetrabenazine: (Contraindicated) Deutetrabenazine use is contraindicated in patients who are receiving or have received MAOI therapy within the past 14 days. The major metabolites of deutetrabenazine (alpha-dihydrotetrabenazine [HTBZ] and beta-HTBZ) are reversible inhibitors of vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2). Inhibition of VMAT2 results in decreased uptake of monoamines into synaptic vesicles and depletion of monoamine stores.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with methylphenidate and its derivatives due to the risk of serotonin syndrome and hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as methylphenidate. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Dextroamphetamine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with amphetamines due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as amphetamines. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Diethylpropion: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as diethylpropion. If concomitant use of safinamide and diethylpropion is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
DOBUTamine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as dobutamine. Because dobutamine is only administered in a hospital or medical facility, your health care provider will monitor you for hypertensive reactions while you are receiving safinamide and dobutamine together.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as dopamine. If concomitant use of safinamide and dopamine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Doxapram: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as doxapram. If concomitant use of safinamide and doxapram is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Doxepin: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
droPERidol: (Major) The concurrent use of safinamide and droperidol should be avoided if possible. The beneficial effects of safinamide are mediated by monoamine oxidase inhibitor type B activity which increases central dopamine availability and droperidol is a dopamine antagonist. If these agents must be used together, monitor for exacerbation of Parkinson's disease symptoms.
DULoxetine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of an SNRI.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
ePHEDrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as ephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and ephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as ephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and ephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as epinephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and epinephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Escitalopram: (Major) The concurrent use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is generally avoided; however, the manufacturer of safinamide recommends monitoring for serotonin syndrome and using the lowest effective dose of the SSRI during concurrent use. During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide, 1 case of serotonin syndrome occurred during co-administration with an SSRI. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Esketamine: (Major) Because of the possibility of additive sedative effects, caution is advisable during concurrent use of dopaminergic agents, such as safinamide, and CNS depressants, such as esketamine. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Patients who have received a dose of esketamine should be instructed not to drive or engage in other activities requiring complete mental alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ethanol: (Major) Advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption while taking safinamide. Alcohol consumption may increase the risk for somnolence and hypertension. Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Such events may increase when safinamide is combined with alcohol. Ingestion of alcohol-containing beverages with high tyramine content (i.e., more than 150 mg of tyramine) may also place some patients at risk for hypertension.
Fenfluramine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of fenfluramine with safinamide or within 14 days after discontinuation of treatment with safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome.
fentaNYL: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
FLUoxetine: (Major) The concurrent use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is generally avoided; however, the manufacturer of safinamide recommends monitoring for serotonin syndrome and using the lowest effective dose of the SSRI during concurrent use. During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide, 1 case of serotonin syndrome occurred during co-administration with an SSRI. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
fluPHENAZine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) The concurrent use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is generally avoided; however, the manufacturer of safinamide recommends monitoring for serotonin syndrome and using the lowest effective dose of the SSRI during concurrent use. During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide, 1 case of serotonin syndrome occurred during co-administration with an SSRI. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use while taking CNS depressants due to the risk for additive CNS depression and potential for other cognitive adverse reactions. (Major) Safinamide is selective for MAO-B at recommended doses (50 to 100 mg/day) and can generally be used without dietary tyramine restriction. Patients should be informed not to exceed the recommended safinamide dose and to follow all dietary instructions. Certain foods may contain very high amounts (i.e., 150 mg or greater) of tyramine and could potentially cause a hypertensive reaction in individual patients with increased sensitivity to tyramine and are best avoided or limited. Food sources considered to be high in tyramine and that may interact with MAO inhibitors in general include Stilton aged cheese, concentrated yeast extracts (e.g., Marmite), aged meats, and sauerkraut. Ethanol ingestion of alcoholic beverages with high tyramine content (e.g., tap beers) also may place patients at risk. If a patient eats foods very rich in tyramine and does not feel well soon after eating, the patient should contact their healthcare provider. Patients should also be instructed to contact their healthcare provider if they experience severe headache, shortness of breath, palpitations, diaphoresis, chest pain or other symptoms suggestive of a significant hypertensive reaction or hypertensive crisis.
Frovatriptan: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Gabapentin: (Major) Initiate gabapentin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of gabapentin and safinamide. Concomitant use of gabapentin with safinamide may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as safinamide, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Gepirone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of gepirone and safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk for serious and possibly fatal adverse reactions including hypertensive crisis and serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days to elapse in-between therapies.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Haloperidol: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, haloperidol and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to haloperidol. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
HYDROcodone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
HYDROmorphone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Major) Concurrent use of intravenous (IV) methylene blue and MAOIs such as safinamide should generally be avoided due to the potential for serotonin syndrome. If emergent treatment with methylene blue is required in a patient receiving an MAOI it is advisable to discontinue the MAOI and monitor the patient for symptoms of CNS toxicity for two weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. During non-emergent use of methylene blue, it is advisable to discontinue the MAOI at least 2 weeks prior to methylene blue treatment, but also taking into consideration the half-life of the MAOI being discontinued. Because safinamide is a selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibitor at manufacturer recommended doses, an interaction may be less likely to occur than with other traditional MAOIs. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A). Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of IV methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in patients receiving serotonergic agents.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Iloperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Imipramine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of safinamide with other monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of other MAOIs within 2 weeks of taking safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk of increased blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis. Serotonin syndrome has also been reported during coadministration of MAOIs, presumably due to additive effects on central serotonin levels.
Isoniazid, INH: (Moderate) Monitor for hypertension and an enhanced hypertensive response to dietary tyramine if the concomitant use of safinamide and isoniazid is necessary. Safinamide is a selective monoamine oxidase (MAO)-B inhibitor that loses selectivity at higher doses; isoniazid has some MAO inhibitor activity. Concomitant use increases the risk for blood pressure elevations, including hypertensive crisis, especially when combined with significant tyramine intake.
Isoproterenol: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as isoproterenol. If concomitant use of safinamide and isoproterenol is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation, somnolence, and serotonin syndrome during coadministration of lasmiditan and safinamide. Inform patients taking this combination of the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression and serotonin syndrome, particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Dopaminergic agents, such as safinamide, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Lemborexant: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lemborexant and safinamide. Dosage adjustments of lemborexant and safinamide may be necessary when administered together because of potentially additive CNS effects. The risk of next-day impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if lemborexant is taken with other CNS depressants. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with safinamide should generally be avoided because of the possibility of additive sedative effects. Dopaminergic agents have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Prescribers should re-assess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Levomilnacipran: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of an SNRI.
Levorphanol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as epinephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and epinephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Linezolid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of linezolid with safinamide, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor type B, or use of linezolid within 2 weeks of taking safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk of increased blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a potent inhibitor of monoamine oxidase. Serotonin syndrome has also been reported when linezolid is given with serotonergic agents, including monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), which can potentiate central serotonin levels.
Lisdexamfetamine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with amphetamines due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as amphetamines. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
LORazepam: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Loxapine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, loxapine and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to loxapine. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Lurasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Meperidine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Meprobamate: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Methadone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Methamphetamine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with amphetamines due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as amphetamines. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Major) Concurrent use of intravenous (IV) methylene blue and MAOIs such as safinamide should generally be avoided due to the potential for serotonin syndrome. If emergent treatment with methylene blue is required in a patient receiving an MAOI it is advisable to discontinue the MAOI and monitor the patient for symptoms of CNS toxicity for two weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. During non-emergent use of methylene blue, it is advisable to discontinue the MAOI at least 2 weeks prior to methylene blue treatment, but also taking into consideration the half-life of the MAOI being discontinued. Because safinamide is a selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibitor at manufacturer recommended doses, an interaction may be less likely to occur than with other traditional MAOIs. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A). Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of IV methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in patients receiving serotonergic agents.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Methylene Blue: (Major) Concurrent use of intravenous (IV) methylene blue and MAOIs such as safinamide should generally be avoided due to the potential for serotonin syndrome. If emergent treatment with methylene blue is required in a patient receiving an MAOI it is advisable to discontinue the MAOI and monitor the patient for symptoms of CNS toxicity for two weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of methylene blue, whichever comes first. During non-emergent use of methylene blue, it is advisable to discontinue the MAOI at least 2 weeks prior to methylene blue treatment, but also taking into consideration the half-life of the MAOI being discontinued. Because safinamide is a selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibitor at manufacturer recommended doses, an interaction may be less likely to occur than with other traditional MAOIs. Methylene blue is a thiazine dye that is also a potent, reversible inhibitor of the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of serotonin in the brain (MAO-A). Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of IV methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in patients receiving serotonergic agents.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with methylphenidate and its derivatives due to the risk of serotonin syndrome and hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as methylphenidate. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Methylphenidate: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with methylphenidate and its derivatives due to the risk of serotonin syndrome and hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as methylphenidate. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Metoclopramide: (Major) The concurrent use of safinamide and metoclopramide should be avoided if possible. The beneficial effects of safinamide are mediated by monoamine oxidase inhibitor type B activity which increases central dopamine availability and metoclopramide is a dopamine antagonist. In addition, metoclopramide may cause extrapyramidal effects, including pseudoparkinsonism. If these agents must be used together, monitor for exacerbation of Parkinson's disease symptoms.
Midazolam: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Midodrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as midodrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and midodrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Milnacipran: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of an SNRI.
Molindone: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, safinamide and molindone may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to molindone. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of safinamide with other monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of other MAOIs within 2 weeks of taking safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk of increased blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis. Serotonin syndrome has also been reported during coadministration of MAOIs, presumably due to additive effects on central serotonin levels.
Morphine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Nalbuphine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Naratriptan: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Norepinephrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as norepinephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and norepinephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Nortriptyline: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) The concurrent use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is generally avoided; however, the manufacturer of safinamide recommends monitoring for serotonin syndrome and using the lowest effective dose of the SSRI during concurrent use. During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide, 1 case of serotonin syndrome occurred during co-administration with an SSRI. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Oliceridine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Opiate Agonists: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Opiate Agonists-Antagonists: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Oxazepam: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
oxyCODONE: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
oxyMORphone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Ozanimod: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ozanimod with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is contraindicated. Separate the use of these medications by at least 14 days. Concomitant use may reduce ozanimod efficacy or increase the risk for ozanimod-related adverse effects. MAO-B is partially responsible for the formation of CC112273, an active metabolite of ozanimod; alternation of this metabolic pathway may adversely impact ozanimod safety and efficacy.
Paliperidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
PARoxetine: (Major) The concurrent use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is generally avoided; however, the manufacturer of safinamide recommends monitoring for serotonin syndrome and using the lowest effective dose of the SSRI during concurrent use. During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide, 1 case of serotonin syndrome occurred during co-administration with an SSRI. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Pentazocine; Naloxone: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Perphenazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Phendimetrazine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phendimetrazine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phendimetrazine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of safinamide with other monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of other MAOIs within 2 weeks of taking safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk of increased blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis. Serotonin syndrome has also been reported during coadministration of MAOIs, presumably due to additive effects on central serotonin levels.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Phenothiazines: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Phentermine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phentermine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phentermine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phentermine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phentermine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Pimozide: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, pimozide and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to pimozide. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Pregabalin: (Major) Initiate pregabalin at the lowest recommended dose and monitor patients for symptoms of sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pregabalin and safinamide. Concomitant use of pregabalin with safinamide may cause additive CNS depression. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of excessive CNS depression. Dopaminergic agents, such as safinamide, have also been associated with sudden sleep onset during activities of daily living such as driving, which has resulted in accidents in some cases. Reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness regularly throughout treatment, especially since events may occur well after the start of treatment.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as epinephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and epinephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Primidone: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Prochlorperazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Contraindicated) Dextromethorphan prescription products are contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days, due to the risk of serious and possibly fatal drug interactions, including serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days after stopping dextromethorphan before starting an MAOI, including safinamide. Brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior have also been reported with this combination. Patients should read nonprescription product labels carefully. Before initiating an MAOI after using other serotoninergic agents, a sufficient amount of time must be allowed for clearance of the serotoninergic agent and its active metabolites. (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as phenylephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and phenylephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Protriptyline: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA.
Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers. (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
QUEtiapine: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Racepinephrine: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as racepinephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and racepinephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as Ramelteon.
Rasagiline: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of Safinamide with medications that inhibit monoamine oxidase B, such as rasagiline, or use of rasagiline within 2 weeks of taking safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk of increased blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis. Serotonin syndrome has also been reported during co-administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), which can potentiate central serotonin levels.
Remifentanil: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Remimazolam: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as barbiturates.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Major) The concurrent use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is generally avoided; however, the manufacturer of safinamide recommends monitoring for serotonin syndrome and using the lowest effective dose of the SSRI during concurrent use. During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide, 1 case of serotonin syndrome occurred during co-administration with an SSRI. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) Both safinamide and selegiline are selective monoamine oxidase type B inhibitors (MAO-B inhibitors), and concurrent use is contraindicated. At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of selegiline and initiation of treatment with safinamide. After stopping treatment with safinamide, a time period equal to 4 to 5 half-lives of safinamide or any active metabolite should elapse before starting therapy with selegiline. Hypertensive crisis has occurred in patients receiving selective MAO-B inhibitors simultaneously. Concurrent use may also represent duplicative therapy.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with methylphenidate and its derivatives due to the risk of serotonin syndrome and hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as methylphenidate. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of an SNRI.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Sertraline: (Major) The concurrent use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) is generally avoided; however, the manufacturer of safinamide recommends monitoring for serotonin syndrome and using the lowest effective dose of the SSRI during concurrent use. During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide, 1 case of serotonin syndrome occurred during co-administration with an SSRI. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Solriamfetol: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of solriamfetol, a noradrenergic drugs, and safinamide, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, or use of solriamfetol within 14 days of safinamide is contraindicated due to the increased risk for hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure. In addition, solriamfetol is a central dopaminergic drug and concurrent use with other dopaminergic drugs, such as safinamide, has not been studied.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with St. John's Wort due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of St. John's Wort. Patients should be instructed to discuss the use of any vitamins or herbal supplements with their heatlh care provider prior to the initiation of any new medication.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and safinamide. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUFentanil: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
SUMAtriptan: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as suvorexant.
Tapentadol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Tasimelteon: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as tasimelteon.
Temazepam: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Tetrabenazine: (Contraindicated) Tetrabenazine use is contraindicated in patients who are receiving or have received a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, such as safinamide, within the past 14 days. The major metabolites of tetrabenazine (alpha-dihydrotetrabenazine [HTBZ] and beta-HTBZ) are reversible inhibitors of vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2). Inhibition of VMAT2 results in decreased uptake of monoamines into synaptic vesicles and depletion of monoamine stores.
Thioridazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Thiothixene: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, thiothixene and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to thiothixene. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movement, moods, or behaviors.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traMADol: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of safinamide with opioids is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Allow at least 14 days between discontinuation of safinamide and initiation of treatment with opioids.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of safinamide with other monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of other MAOIs within 2 weeks of taking safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk of increased blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis. Serotonin syndrome has also been reported during coadministration of MAOIs, presumably due to additive effects on central serotonin levels.
traZODone: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with trazodone due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of trazodone.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as benzodiazepines.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA.
Trifluoperazine: (Major) Due to opposing effects on central dopaminergic activity, phenothiazines and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. Avoid concurrent use if possible and consider an atypical antipsychotic as an alternative to the phenothiazine if appropriate. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for changes in movements, moods, or behaviors.
Trimipramine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of a TCA.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of other sedating medications, such as sedating H1-blockers.
Tryptophan, 5-Hydroxytryptophan: (Major) Avoid use together if possible. The combination of tryptophan supplements and safinamide may lead to increased levels of serotonin and serotonin syndrome. Tryptophan is a serotonin precursor. Safinamide is a MAO-B inhibitor. In the postmarketing period, potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported in patients treated with selected serotonergic agents concomitantly with selective MAO-B inhibitors. There are also reports of tryptophan and MAO inhibitor interactions in the literature.
Valbenazine: (Major) Avoid the use of valbenazine with safinamide if possible. Safinamide is a selective inhibitor of MAO type B (MAO-B), which results in an increased bioavailability of dopamine in the brain, while the therapeutic effect of valbenazine is thought to occur through inhibition of dopamine release. Concomitant use of valbenazine and safinamide may result in an attenuated treatment effect of valbenazine or safinamide.
Venlafaxine: (Contraindicated) Safinamide is contraindicated for use with serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. At least 14 days should elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of an SNRI.
Vilazodone: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of vilazodone and safinamide, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of vilazodone within 2 weeks of stopping safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Viloxazine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of viloxazine with safinamide or within 2 weeks after discontinuing safinamide is contraindicated due to the risk for hypertensive crisis.
Vortioxetine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of vortioxetine and safinamide, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of safinamide within 2 weeks of stopping vortioxetine is contraindicated due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. Conversely, at least 21 days should elapse after stopping vortioxetine before initiating safinamide. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for movement disorders, unusual changes in moods or behavior, and diminished effectiveness of the atypical antipsychotic or safinamide during coadministration. Due to mutually opposing effects on dopamine, atypical antipsychotics and safinamide may interfere with the effectiveness of each other. In general, atypical antipsychotics are less likely to interfere with safinamide than traditional antipsychotics. The Beers Criteria recognize quetiapine and clozapine as exceptions to the general recommendation to avoid all antipsychotics in older adults with Parkinson's disease.
ZOLMitriptan: (Moderate) Safinamide and serotonin-receptor agonists, also known as triptans, should be used together with caution. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during administration of serotonin-receptor agonists and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). Since safinamide selectively inhibits MAO-B at recommended doses, no interaction with serotonin-receptor agonists would be expected with normal prescription use. However, monitoring for serotonin-related side effects is advisable since the potential for serotonin syndrome exists. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue all serotonergic agents and institute appropriate treatment.
Zolpidem: (Moderate) Dopaminergic medications, including safinamide, may cause a sudden onset of somnolence which sometimes has resulted in motor vehicle accidents. Patients may not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, or they may report feeling alert immediately prior to the event. Because of possible additive effects, advise patients about the potential for increased somnolence during concurrent use of safinamide with other sedating medications, such as anxiolytics, sedatives, and hypnotics.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anxiety, drowsiness, dyskinesia, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, psychosis, sudden sleep onset
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide as adjunct treatment to carbidopa; levodopa in adults, the following centrally-mediated  or nervous system adverse effects were reported in the 50 mg/day safinamide groups and the 100 mg/day safinamide groups, respectively at incidences higher than with placebo: insomnia (1%, 4%), anxiety (2%, 2%), falls (4%, 6%), and dyskinesia (21%, 17%). The most frequently reported adverse reaction causing study discontinuation was dyskinesia (1% of patients treated with safinamide 50 mg or 100 mg per day). Patients may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes, which may be severe, including psychotic-like behaviors, psychosis, and hallucinations. In patients who develop treatment-emergent dyskinesias or hallucinations, a dose reduction of safinamide or discontinuation of the drug should be considered. Patients treated with dopaminergic medications have reported falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living including the operation of motor vehicles, which sometimes resulted in accidents. In clinical trials, sleep attacks or sudden sleep onset were reported in patients treated with safinamide 100 mg per day. Patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned. Some patients reported that they had no warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, and believed that they were alert immediately prior to an event. Some of these events have been reported more than 1 year after initiation of treatment.  Discontinue safinamide in patients who develop significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities. If a decision is made to continue the drug, advise them to avoid driving and other potentially dangerous activities. There is insufficient information to establish that dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living. During postmarketing use of safinamide, headache has been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyskinesia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sudden sleep onset
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    dyspepsia, nausea
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide as adjunct treatment to carbidopa; levodopa in adults, the following gastrointestinal (GI) adverse effects were reported in the 50 mg/day safinamide groups, the 100 mg/day safinamide groups, and placebo groups, respectively: nausea (3%, 6%, 4%) and dyspepsia (0%, 2%, 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypertension, hypertensive crisis, orthostatic hypotension
    General Information
    Safinamide may cause hypertension, exacerbate pre-existing hypertension, or cause hypertensive crisis. The recommended maximum dose of safinamide should not be exceeded because of these risks. During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide as adjunct treatment to carbidopa; levodopa in adults, the following adverse cardiac effect was reported in the 50 mg/day safinamide groups, the 100 mg/day safinamide groups, and placebo groups, respectively: orthostatic hypotension (2%, 2%, 1%). Safinamide is selective for MAO-B at recommended doses (50 to 100 mg/day) and can be used without dietary tyramine restriction, although MAO-B selectivity decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose. Certain foods that contain very high amounts (i.e., 150 mg or greater) of tyramine could potentially cause a hypertensive reaction due to increased sensitivity to tyramine. Patients should be informed not to exceed the recommended dose and should be instructed to avoid tyramine-rich foods while receiving safinamide. Food and alcohol sources considered to be high in tyramine and that may interact with MAO inhibitors in general include Stilton aged cheese, concentrated yeast extracts (e.g., Marmite), aged meats, sauerkraut, and tap beers). If a patient eats foods very rich in tyramine and does not feel well soon after eating, the patient should contact their health care provider. Patients should also be instructed to contact their health care provider if they experience severe, sudden or continued headache, shortness of breath, palpitations, diaphoresis, chest pain or other symptoms suggestive of a significant hypertensive reaction or hypertensive crisis. The effect of safinamide on the QTc interval was evaluated in a randomized placebo and positive controlled double-blind, multiple-dose parallel QTc study in 240 healthy subjects. At a dose of 350 mg (3.5 times the maximum recommended dosage), safinamide did not prolong the QTc interval.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      orthostatic hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertensive crisis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cough
    General Information
    During clinical trial evaluation of safinamide as adjunct treatment to carbidopa; levodopa in adults, the following adverse respiratory effect was reported in the 50 mg/day safinamide groups, the 100 mg/day safinamide groups, and placebo groups, respectively: cough (2%, 2%, 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes occurred during clinical trial evaluation of safinamide as adjunct treatment to carbidopa; levodopa in adults. The percentage of patients who experienced a change from normal to above the upper limit of normal for serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was 5% in the 50 mg/day safinamide groups, 7% in the 100 mg/day safinamide groups, and 3% in the placebo groups. There were no patients treated with safinamide who experienced an increase in ALT that was 3 times the upper limit of normal or higher. The percentage of patients who experienced a change from normal to above the upper limit of normal for serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) was 7% in the 50 mg/day safinamide groups, 6% in the 100 mg/day safinamide groups, and 3% in the placebo groups. The incidence of patients with an increase in AST to at least 3 times the upper limit of normal was similar for safinamide and placebo.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dyspnea, edema, rash (unspecified)
    General Information
    There is a postmarketing report that describes a patient who developed a hypersensitivity reaction consisting of edema of the tongue and gingiva, dyspnea, and skin rash (unspecified). The symptoms resolved shortly after safinamide was discontinued, but reappeared following re-challenge a month later.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    impulse control symptoms
    General Information
    Some patients receiving medications that increase dopaminergic tone, including safinamide, have reported intense and uncontrollable urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, binge eating, intense urges to spend money, or other intense urges. Causality to dopaminergic agents has not been established; however, in some cases, the urges stopped after the dose was reduced or the drug was discontinued. Practitioners should inquire periodically about new or worsening impulse control symptoms in patients receiving safinamide. Likewise, patients should be instructed to report such changes while receiving safinamide. A dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered in those who experience these effects.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impulse control symptoms
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    serotonin syndrome
    General Information
    One case of serotonin syndrome was reported during clinical trial evaluation of safinamide in combination with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Symptoms of serotonin syndrome may include nausea, vomiting, sedation, dizziness, diaphoresis (sweating), facial flushing, mental status changes, myoclonus, restlessness, shivering, and hypertension. If serotonin syndrome becomes evident during treatment, safinamide and any serotonergic agents should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms
    General Information
    Neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms (characterized by elevated temperature, muscular rigidity, altered consciousness, and autonomic instability), with no other obvious etiology, have been reported in association with rapid dose reduction, withdrawal of, or changes in drugs that increase dopaminergic tone. Avoid abrupt discontinuation of safinamide if possible. When a patient is taking safinamide 100 mg/day, a taper to 50 mg/day for 1 week is recommended, when clinically feasible, before drug discontinuation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      neuroleptic malignant syndrome-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cataracts, retinopathy
    General Information
    Retinal degeneration (retinopathy) and loss of photoreceptor cells were observed in albino and pigmented rats administered safinamide orally in toxicity studies of up to 6 months in duration. Retinal scarring and cataracts were observed at all doses tested in albino rats administered safinamide orally for 2 years. Investigative studies were not able to identify a mechanism underlying the retinal toxicity and the relevance to humans is unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cataracts
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      retinopathy
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Safinamide is a selective and reversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO) Type B. MAO exists as two catabolic isoenzymes, MAO-A and MAO-B. The neurotransmitters serotonin and norepinephrine are primarily catabolized by MAO-A and dopamine is primarily catabolized by MAO-B. MAO in the gastrointestinal tract is primarily type A, and provides protection from systemic absorption of exogenous amines with vasopressor actions, such as tyramine, which can cause hypertensive crisis if absorbed intact. Because of the highly selective MAO-B inhibitory effects of safinamide, the drug can be used without dietary tyramine restrictions at recommended doses. However, due to the potential severity of a hypertensive crisis, patients should be advised to avoid certain foods (e.g., aged cheese) containing a very large amount of tyramine (i.e., more than 150 mg) while taking safinamide. Exceeding the maximum recommended dose will also increase the risk of a hypertensive crisis, since there is a dose-related decrease in MAO-B selectivity of safinamide at higher doses. Due to its dopaminergic properties, safinamide is effective in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and is FDA approved as an adjunct to levodopa; carbidopa therapy to treat "off" episodes in adults with Parkinson's disease. The FDA approved safinamide in March 2017.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Safinamide is a highly selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) type B inhibitor and inhibits MAO-B with more than 1,000-fold selectivity over MAO-A. In clinical studies, complete inhibition (greater than 90%) of MAO-B was measured at doses above 20 mg. The relative MAO-B selectivity of safinamide decreases above the highest recommended dose of 100 mg/day. The precise mechanism of action of safinamide in treating "off" episodes in Parkinson's disease is unknown; however, one mechanism is believed to be related to its MAO-B inhibitory activity, which causes an increase in dopamine levels centrally. The elevated dopamine levels and subsequent increased dopaminergic activity are likely to mediate the beneficial effects of safinamide.
 
MAO is classified into two major catabolic enzymes, type A and B, which are located in mitochondrial membranes throughout the body in nerve terminals, brain, liver and intestinal mucosa. The neurotransmitters serotonin and norepinephrine are primarily catabolized by MAO-A and dopamine is primarily catabolized by MAO-B. In addition to their role in the catabolism of monoamines in the CNS, MAOs are also important in the catabolism of exogenous amines found in a variety of foods and drugs. MAO in the gastrointestinal tract is primarily type A, and provides protection from systemic absorption of exogenous amines with vasopressor actions, such as tyramine, which can cause hypertensive crisis if absorbed intact. In a tyramine challenge study, safinamide produced a distinct but relatively small increase in tyramine sensitivity to increase blood pressure. The results suggest that safinamide at a dose of 50 mg or 100 mg is relatively selective for inhibiting MAO-B and can be used without dietary tyramine restriction. However, due to the potential severity of a hypertensive crisis, patients should be advised to avoid certain foods (e.g., aged cheese) containing a very large amount of tyramine (i.e., more than 150 mg) while taking recommended doses of safinamide.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Following oral administration, the absolute bioavailability is 95% and first pass metabolism is negligible. The time to maximum concentrations (Tmax) occurs between 2 and 3 hours after a dose. Administration with food slightly delays the Tmax; however, the AUC and maximum concentration (Cmax) are not affected. Therefore, the drug may be administered without regard to meals. Steady state is reached within 5 to 6 days.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Plasma concentrations of safinamide are increased in patients with hepatic impairment. In kinetic studies involving patients with mild hepatic impairment, there was an approximate 30% increase in AUC which does not require dose adjustments. In subjects with moderate hepatic impairment, exposure to safinamide was increased by about 80%; therefore, a reduced maximum daily dosage is recommended in those with moderate hepatic impairment. Safinamide is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment; the drug has not been studied in this patient population. If a patient progresses from moderate to severe hepatic impairment, treatment with safinamide should be discontinued.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In a single dose study, the pharmacokinetics of safinamide were not affected by moderate to severe impaired renal function; therefore, no dosage adjustments are required in patients with impaired renal function.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Safinamide has not been evaluated in pediatric patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Limited data on the use of safinamide in geriatric patients older than 75 years suggest that the pharmacokinetics of safinamide are not affected by age.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of safinamide are not influenced by gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of safinamide are not influenced by ethnicity.
  Text
  Safinamide is administered orally. Safinamide is not highly protein bound; however, there is a large volume of distribution. Safinamide is extensively metabolized in the liver. There are 3 main metabolic pathways; however, none of the currently identified metabolites have pharmacologic activity. One metabolic pathway occurs through oxidation to produce safinamide acid (NW-1153), the second pathway occurs through oxidative cleavage to form O-debenzylated safinamide (NW-1199), and the third pathway involves oxidative cleavage to form an N-dealkylated acid (NW-1689) from either safinamide or safinamide acid, which then undergoes further conjugation. The N-dealkylated acid is the main circulating metabolite in human plasma, exceeding the exposure of the parent by 161%. Only about 5% of the drug is eliminated unchanged, mainly in urine. Inactive metabolites constitute 76% of a safinamide dose recovered in the urine. The terminal half-life is 20 to 26 hours.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: BCRP
Safinamide and its major metabolite may inhibit intestinal breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). There is a potential for increased plasma concentrations of BCRP substrates. CYP isoenzymes have only a minor role in the overall biotransformation of safinamide. Safinamide is not a substrate of P-gp. Safinamide and its metabolites did not inhibit P-gp or other transporters such as OCT2, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, BSEP, or OAT1/3/4. Safinamide and the N-dealkylated acid metabolite may inhibit BCRP at the 100 mg dose. Drug interaction studies with ketoconazole, levodopa, caffeine (CYP1A2 substrate) and midazolam (CYP3A4 substrate) did not demonstrate any clinically significant effects on the pharmacokinetic profile of safinamide. Safinamide did not demonstrate clinically significant effects on the kinetic profile of levodopa or CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 substrates.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets
Administer at the same time each day; the dose may administer with or without food.
If a dose is missed, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the usual time on the following day.
Food and drug interactions with safinamide can be serious. Patients should avoid foods/beverages containing large amounts of tyramine.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    100 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    100 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A; score 5 to 6): No dosage adjustment needed.
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B; score 7 to 9): Do not exceed 50 mg PO once daily. If a patient taking this dose progresses from moderate to severe hepatic impairment, discontinue the drug.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C; score 10 to 15): Contraindicated.
  Renal Impairment
  No dosage adjustments are needed.
