=== Methamphetamine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 1439)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Methamphetamine is an oral, centrally-acting stimulant approved for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: For ADHD, 20 to 25 mg/day PO is usually effective.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): hypertension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia, angina, cardiac arrest, chest pain (unspecified), myocardial infarction, respiratory arrest, stroke, syncope, dizziness, dysphoria, euphoria, headache, insomnia, restlessness, tremor, bowel ischemia, dysgeusia, weight loss, physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance, withdrawal, blurred vision, mydriasis, visual impairment, delirium, hallucinations, mania

In an Overdose: Labile blood pressure and heart rate (hypotension or hypertension), palpitations, and sinus tachycardia may be signs of excessive dosages or overdose.Methamphetamine use, especially abuse or misuse, may cause cardiorespiratory arrest... Angina, cardiac arrhythmias including heart block, and circulatory collapse may be signs of excessive dosages or overdose.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Methamphetamine is contraindicated for use in patients with known hypersensitivity to the sympathomimetic amines or any component of these products. Methamphetamine tablets contain lactose; patients with lactase deficiency should take appropriate precautions with use.

Brand Names
  - Desoxyn

Dosage Forms
  - Desoxyn 5mg Tablet
  - Methamphetamine Hydrochloride 5mg Oral tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 5 mg PO once or twice daily. Increase by 5 mg/day at weekly intervals if needed. Usual effective dose is 20 to 25 mg PO daily divided into 2 doses. Use lowest effective dose and, if possible, occasionally interrupt drug administration to determine if there is a recurrence of behavioral symptoms sufficient to require continued therapy. Use as part of a total treatment program that typically includes psychological, educational, and social remedial measures. Methamphetamine is usually not indicated if distractibility, short attention span, hyperactivity, emotional lability, and impulsivity are associated with acute stress reactions.
        Heading
        Children and Adolescents 6 to 17 years
        Dosage Description
        Initially, 5 mg PO once or twice daily. Increase by 5 mg/day at weekly intervals if needed. Usual effective dose is 20 to 25 mg PO daily divided into 2 doses. Use lowest effective dose and, if possible, occasionally interrupt drug administration to determine if there is a recurrence of behavioral symptoms sufficient to require continued therapy. Use as part of a total treatment program that typically includes psychological, educational, and social remedial measures. Methamphetamine is usually not indicated if distractibility, short attention span, hyperactivity, emotional lability, and impulsivity are associated with acute stress reactions.
    Heading
    For treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Methamphetamine is contraindicated for use in patients with known hypersensitivity to the sympathomimetic amines or any component of these products. Methamphetamine tablets contain lactose; patients with lactase deficiency should take appropriate precautions with use.
 
Methamphetamine is contraindicated for use by patients who have a history of substance abuse. Risk versus benefit should be considered in patients with a history of alcoholism. Patients may try to obtain methamphetamine for nontherapeutic use or for distribution to others. As methamphetamine has a high potential for abuse, the drug should only be used as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of exogenous obesity when alternative treatment has been ineffective. Furthermore, methamphetamine is only for short-term use (see Dosage), as prolonged administration for the treatment of obesity may lead to drug dependence. Administration of amphetamines for a prolonged period of time may lead to physical and psychological drug dependence. Sparingly prescribe or dispense methamphetamine; appropriate patient selection is imperative, as methamphetamine misuse may cause sudden death and serious cardiovascular adverse events (see Adverse Reactions).
 
Use methamphetamine with caution in patients with a history of a seizure disorder because the seizure threshold can be reduced, particularly during excess CNS stimulation (i.e., amphetamine overdosage). The effects of normal therapeutic dosages of amphetamines on the seizure threshold are less clear. Seizure threshold may be reduced in those with EEG abnormalities and very rarely in patients without a seizure history or EEG abnormalities. If seizures occur, methamphetamine discontinuation is recommended.
 
Because of a potential increased risk of seizures, amphetamines should not be used during intrathecal radiographic contrast administration (see Drug Interactions). Discontinue methamphetamine 48 hours before myelography, and do not resume methamphetamine until at least 24 hours after the procedure.
 
Methamphetamine is classified as a FDA pregnancy category C drug. The amphetamines have been shown to have both embryotoxic and teratogenic effects in some animals when administered at high doses. Non-teratogenic effects are known to occur in human neonates who are born to mothers dependent on amphetamines. These have included increased incidences of premature births, low birth weights, and physical withdrawal symptoms. There are no adequate and well controlled studies of amphetamine use in pregnant women. Methamphetamine should only be used during pregnancy if the expected benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential fetal risk.
 
Amphetamines are excreted in human breast milk by the lactating mother. Concentrations in breast milk are often higher than plasma concentrations. Mothers taking methamphetamine should refrain from breast-feeding their infants.
 
Methamphetamine may precipitate motor or phonetic tics in those with Tourette's syndrome. Evaluate patients and their families for tics and Tourette's syndrome before methamphetamine initiation. Some patients with Tourette's syndrome may actually benefit from stimulant therapy; administer under close supervision and at the lowest effective dose.
 
Methamphetamine is contraindicated for use in thyroid disease patients with hyperthyroidism. Sympathomimetic stimulation may induce cardiac arrhythmias or other side effects.
 
Methamphetamine is contraindicated in patients who have received MAOI therapy within the past 14 days because of the possibility of precipitating a hypertensive crisis (see Drug Interactions).
 
The use of methamphetamine may cause dizziness, mask signs of fatigue or the need for rest, or impair the ability of a patient to participate in activities that require mental alertness. Patients should not perform such tasks, including driving or operating machinery, until they are aware of how this medication affects them. Methamphetamine should not be used to combat fatigue or to replace rest.
 
Debilitated patients or the elderly may be more susceptible to the CNS and sympathomimetic side effects of the amphetamines; use with caution in elderly patients.
 
Methamphetamine is contraindicated for use in patients with advanced arteriosclerosis, symptomatic cardiac disease, or moderate to severe hypertension. Sudden unexplained death (SUD) and myocardial infarction have occurred in adults receiving stimulants at standard dosages for attention-deficit hyperactivity-disorder (ADHD). Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulant treatment at usual doses in pediatrics with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems. As methamphetamine can elevate blood pressure and heart rate (see Adverse Reactions), caution is indicated in treating patients whose underlying medical conditions might be compromised by increases in blood pressure or heart rate such as patients with mild hypertension, heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, or ventricular arrhythmias. Periodic blood pressure and heart rate monitoring is recommended in all patients taking methamphetamine. Cautious use of methamphetamine by patients with cerebrovascular disease or stroke is also advised. In general, patients with serious structural cardiac abnormalities, cardiomyopathy, serious heart rhythm abnormalities, coronary artery disease, or other serious cardiac problems should not be treated with stimulants. The American Heart Association (AHA) states that it is reasonable to consider the use of these medications in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease without current hemodynamic or arrhythmic concerns or congenital heart disease that is considered stable by the patient's pediatric cardiologist, unless the cardiologist has specific concerns. However, these patients should be closely monitored and treatment discontinuation should be considered if the patient develops any of the following conditions: heart condition associated with sudden cardiac death (SCD), arrhythmia requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitation, direct current cardioversion/defibrillation or overdrive pacing, arrhythmia associated with SCD, any clinically significant arrhythmia that is not treated or controlled, QTc on electrocardiogram (ECG) > 0.46 sec, or heart rate or blood pressure > 2 SD above the mean for age. All patients being considered for treatment with stimulant medications should have a careful history taken, including assessment for a family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and a physical exam to assess for the presence of cardiac disease. If cardiac disease is suspected, further cardiac evaluation including an ECG and echocardiogram is warranted. For pediatric patients, the AHA states that it is reasonable to obtain a baseline ECG as a part of the initial evaluation. If a child or adolescent has any significant findings on physical examination, ECG, or family history, consult a pediatric cardiologist before initiating the stimulant medication. Once the medication is started, a repeat ECG may be helpful if the original ECG was obtained before the child was 12 years old, if cardiac symptoms develop, or there is a change in family history.
 
Methamphetamine is contraindicated for use in patients with glaucoma because of the ability of sympathetic stimulation to block aqueous outflow and raise intraocular pressure.
 
Do not use methamphetamine as an anorectic in children; safety and efficacy have not been established. Also, the safety and efficacy of methamphetamine for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity-disorder (ADHD) have not been established in children less than 6 years of age. All children with ADHD do not require medication, and non-drug measures are often instituted concurrently with drug therapy. Drug treatment should be considered only in light of the complete history and evaluation of the child. The decision to prescribe methamphetamine should depend on the physician's assessment of the chronicity and severity of the child's symptoms and their appropriateness for his/her age. Monitoring of the effectiveness of stimulant therapy by the health care prescriber, parents, and teachers is important; periodic reassessment of the need for medication is recommended. Appropriate stimulant therapy should not suppress normal emotions or intellectual ability; the occurrence of certain side effects may indicate a need for dosage reduction (see Adverse Reactions). In psychotic children, amphetamines may exacerbate behavioral disturbances, psychosis, or thought disorders. New onset psychotic or manic symptoms may develop in children and adolescents receiving therapeutic doses of stimulants. Discontinuation of therapy may be required. Although a direct causal relationship has not been established, aggressive behavior and hostility have been reported during use of some stimulants for ADHD in children. It is recommended to monitor for signs of aggression or worsening of pre-existing aggressive behavior when treatment is initiated. Height and weight of children should be monitored during treatment with stimulants. Data obtained on the effects of the stimulant methylphenidate on growth suppression in children 7—10 years of age suggested that regularly medicated children (7 days/week) had a temporary average slowing in growth of 2 cm in height and 2.7 kg in weight over 3 years. The long-term effects of stimulants on brain development and physical growth in children are unknown. Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulant treatment at usual doses in children with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems (e.g., aortic stenosis, cardiomyopathy, congenital heart disease, prosthetic heart valves, valvular heart disease, ventricular dysfunction). Some case reports have involved concomitant medications, such as tricyclic antidepressants. Although some structural cardiac abnormalities alone may carry an increased risk of sudden death, stimulant products generally should not be used in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart conditions. Exceptions to this warning do exist, but careful screening and monitoring is recommended by the American Heart Association (see separate paragraph detailing cardiac contraindications and precautions).
 
Stimulants such as methamphetamine should be used cautiously in those with bipolar disorder due to the potential for manic/mixed episodes to occur in such patients. An assessment should be performed prior to initiation of therapy to determine the risk for bipolar disorder in patients presenting with symptoms of depression; screening should include a detailed psychiatric history including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. Due to its toxic effects in overdose, methamphetamine should only be used in those with major depression or suicidal ideation when absolutely necessary. In psychotic individuals (e.g., schizophrenia), amphetamines may exacerbate behavioral disturbances, psychosis, or thought disorders. Methamphetamine is contraindicated in patients in an agitated state.
 
The use of inhalational anesthetics during surgery may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of methamphetamine (see Drug Interactions).
 
Methamphetamine may cause hypercortisolism, as amphetamines can cause a significant elevation in plasma corticosteroid concentrations. The elevation is greatest in the evening. Amphetamines may interfere with urinary steroid determinations; consider the possible effect of methamphetamine if determination of plasma corticosteroid concentrations is desired.
 
Patients with diabetes mellitus may have glucose control worsening due to the sympathomimetic effect of methamphetamine. Also, the potential weight loss associated with methamphetamine use may improve a patient's insulin sensitivity. Further, consider the anorexic effect of methamphetamine, as reduced food intake may alter the needed dose of antidiabetic agents (see Drug Interactions).
 
Abrupt discontinuation of methamphetamine after chronic use is not recommended. Discontinuation may precipitate withdrawal symptoms and unmask severe mental depression or extreme fatigue. Gradual withdrawal of therapy is recommended.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with other amphetamine products. Avoid use in patients with known hypersensitivity or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines.
    Headline
    substance abuse disorder
    General Information
    Central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, such as methamphetamine, have a high potential for abuse and misuse, which can lead to the development of a substance abuse disorder, including addiction. Assess each individual's risk for substance abuse (including alcoholism), misuse, or addiction before prescribing a CNS stimulant, and monitor for the development of these behaviors or conditions throughout treatment. Children and adolescents with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are more prone to substance abuse compared to those without ADHD, and those with co-occurring mental health conditions (e.g., depression, disruptive behavior disorders) are at even greater risk; however, appropriate treatment of ADHD with medication and behavior therapy may reduce the risk of developing a substance abuse disorder. Prescribing and dispensing the smallest appropriate quantity may help to minimize abuse, misuse, and overdosage. CNS stimulants can be diverted for non-medical use into illicit channels or distribution. The most common source of non-medical use is sharing from family or friends with misuse of the patient's own prescription or obtaining from illicit channels occurring less frequently. Sharing of CNS stimulant medications can lead to substance abuse disorder and addiction in those they are shared with. Misuse and abuse of CNS stimulants can result in potential for overdose or poisoning and death; the risk is increased with higher doses or unapproved methods of administration, such as snorting or injection. Educate patients and their families about these risks, proper storage, and proper disposal of any unused medication. Misuse or abuse may cause increased heart rate, respiratory rate, or blood pressure; sweating; dilated pupils; hyperactivity; restlessness; insomnia; decreased appetite; loss of coordination; tremors; flushed skin; vomiting; and/or abdominal pain. Anxiety, psychosis, hostility, aggression, and suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed with stimulant abuse or misuse.
    Headline
    tics, Tourette's syndrome
    General Information
    CNS stimulants, including methamphetamine, have been associated with the onset or exacerbation of motor and verbal tics. Worsening of Tourette syndrome has also been reported. Prior to initiating methamphetamine, carefully assess family history and clinically evaluate individuals for motor or verbal tics or Tourette syndrome. Regularly monitor methamphetamine-treated individuals for the emergence or worsening of tics or Tourette syndrome and discontinue treatment if clinically appropriate.
    Headline
    cardiac disease, family history of sudden cardiac death, hypertension
    General Information
    Sudden death has been reported in individuals with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious cardiac disease who were treated with CNS stimulants at the recommended ADHD dosages. Avoid use of CNS stimulants in individuals with known structural cardiac abnormalities, cardiomyopathy, serious cardiac arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, or other serious cardiac disease. Prior to initiating any CNS stimulant, carefully assess the individual for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful patient history, assess for any family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and complete a physical exam) and counsel individuals to report symptoms of cardiac disease (i.e., exertional chest pain, unexplained syncope) immediately. Although it is reasonable for a health care provider to obtain an ECG as part of the cardiovascular evaluation, it is not mandatory. Treatment with stimulant products should not be withheld because an ECG is not performed. However, any individual with significant findings on physical examination, ECG, or from patient or family history (such as known congenital heart disease, structural heart disease, arrhythmias, or a family history of sudden cardiac death in members younger than 35 years of age) should be referred for consultation with a pediatric cardiologist prior to starting the stimulant medication. Overall, studies have not shown an association between the use of ADHD medications and adverse cardiovascular events; however, long-term cardiovascular risks associated with ADHD medications are unknown. Use methamphetamine with caution in patients with even mild pre-existing hypertension. CNS stimulant medications, including methamphetamine, can cause an increase in blood pressure (mean increase approximately 2 to 4 mmHg) and heart rate (mean increase approximately 3 to 6 beats per minute). Some individuals may have larger increases. Monitor all individuals receiving methamphetamine for hypertension and tachycardia. Careful monitoring should be performed after initiation of stimulant medications; if any abnormal findings or arrhythmias are diagnosed during treatment, consider discontinuation of the stimulant.
    Headline
    mood disorder, psychotic disorder, suicidal ideation
    General Information
    CNS stimulants should be used with caution in those with bipolar disorder or a pre-existing psychotic disorder (e.g., schizophrenia). CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in individuals with pre-existing psychosis. These medications can also induce mania or a mixed episode in individuals with bipolar disorder. Prior to initiating treatment with methamphetamine, screen individuals for risk factors for bipolar disorder or developing an episode of mania (e.g., mood disorder, comorbid or history of depressive symptoms, or a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, or depression). At recommended doses, CNS stimulants may also cause psychotic or manic symptoms (such as hallucinations, delusions, or mania) in individuals without a prior history of psychosis or mania. Advise individuals and their caregivers to promptly report suicidal ideation or any changes in mood or behavior and consider discontinuing treatment if these symptoms occur.
    Headline
    peripheral vasoconstriction or ischemia
    General Information
    Stimulant medications are associated with peripheral vasoconstriction or ischemia, including Raynaud phenomenon. Worsening of peripheral vascular disease is possible. Effects on circulation have been observed with therapeutic doses at different times throughout therapy in all age groups. Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild, and generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of the drug. However, very rare sequelae include digital skin ulcer and/or soft tissue breakdown. Carefully monitor all individuals for digital changes during treatment with stimulant medications, especially those with pre-existing circulation problems. Instruct individuals to seek immediate medical attention if any new digital numbness, pain, skin discoloration, or temperature sensitivity of the fingers or toes occurs, or if unexplained wounds appear on their fingers or toes. Further clinical evaluation (e.g., rheumatology referral) may be appropriate for methamphetamine-treated individuals who develop signs or symptoms of peripheral vasculopathy.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Methamphetamine has teratogenic and embryocidal effects in mammals given much larger doses than those seen in humans. Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the risk. Available data on the use of prescription amphetamines during human pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. Infants born to individuals taking amphetamines during pregnancy have an increased risk of premature delivery and low birth weight. Amphetamines cause vasoconstriction and may decrease placental perfusion. In addition, amphetamines can stimulate uterine contractions, increasing the risk of premature delivery.  Much of the historical data on amphetamine use during pregnancy is derived from studies of illicit use, which may be complicated by comorbid substance abuse or ingestion of higher-than-prescribed doses. These studies report increased incidence of premature birth, low birth weight and length, lower occipitofrontal circumference, and neonatal withdrawal symptoms (e.g., abnormal sleep patterns, poor feeding, tremor, agitation, fatigue, hypertonia). However, more recent data demonstrate that risks associated with the use of prescription amphetamines may be lower than initially thought. Among 671 mother-child pairs enrolled in the Collaborative Perinatal Project who had first trimester exposure to amphetamines and 1,898 mother-child pairs with amphetamine exposures at any time during pregnancy, there was no evidence suggesting a relationship to large categories of major or minor malformations. Similarly, a large cohort study of pregnancy outcomes in the United States and 5 Nordic countries were compared to assess for the risks of major congenital malformations and cardiac effects in infants exposed to stimulants in utero. Of the 5,571 pregnant people who filled a prescription for amphetamines during the first trimester, 253 (4.54%) were diagnosed with malformations. In infants who were not exposed, 62,966 (3.5%) of the nearly 1.8 million infants developed malformations. After adjusting for underlying psychiatric disorders and other potential confounders, no increased risks were observed for amphetamine use compared to controls. Animal studies identify long-term neurochemical and behavioral effects in offspring at clinically relevant amphetamine doses. A large cohort study evaluated stimulant use in the second half of pregnancy in 4,693 amphetamine/dextroamphetamine and 786 methylphenidate-exposed pregnancies compared to 2,496,711 unexposed pregnancies. This study found exposure to these medications in utero did not increase the risk of childhood neurodevelopmental disorders after adjustment for confounders, such as demographic characteristics and maternal ADHD or mental health diagnoses. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant people exposed to ADHD medications. Care teams are encouraged to register patients at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/postpregnancy/adhd-medications/ or by calling 1-866-961-2388.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Geriatric adults or debilitated individuals may be more susceptible to the CNS and sympathomimetic side effects of the amphetamines; use with caution in the older adult. Medication should be titrated with low doses initially and with a slow increase.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero are at risk for withdrawal symptoms after delivery. Monitor neonates and infants for symptoms of withdrawal such as feeding difficulties, irritability, agitation, and excessive drowsiness.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking methamphetamine. Amphetamines are present in human milk. Because there is no published experience with the use of methamphetamine as a therapeutic agent during lactation, alternatives may be preferred. Methylphenidate, dexmethylphenidate, and serdexmethylphenidate/methylphenidate are alternative options for treatment of ADHD in the breast-feeding individual, as limited data indicates that methylphenidate levels in milk are very low and not detectable in infant serum.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Methamphetamine has teratogenic and embryocidal effects in mammals given much larger doses than those seen in humans. Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the risk. Available data on the use of prescription amphetamines during human pregnancy have not identified a drug-associated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage. Infants born to individuals taking amphetamines during pregnancy have an increased risk of premature delivery and low birth weight. Amphetamines cause vasoconstriction and may decrease placental perfusion. In addition, amphetamines can stimulate uterine contractions, increasing the risk of premature delivery.  Much of the historical data on amphetamine use during pregnancy is derived from studies of illicit use, which may be complicated by comorbid substance abuse or ingestion of higher-than-prescribed doses. These studies report increased incidence of premature birth, low birth weight and length, lower occipitofrontal circumference, and neonatal withdrawal symptoms (e.g., abnormal sleep patterns, poor feeding, tremor, agitation, fatigue, hypertonia). However, more recent data demonstrate that risks associated with the use of prescription amphetamines may be lower than initially thought. Among 671 mother-child pairs enrolled in the Collaborative Perinatal Project who had first trimester exposure to amphetamines and 1,898 mother-child pairs with amphetamine exposures at any time during pregnancy, there was no evidence suggesting a relationship to large categories of major or minor malformations. Similarly, a large cohort study of pregnancy outcomes in the United States and 5 Nordic countries were compared to assess for the risks of major congenital malformations and cardiac effects in infants exposed to stimulants in utero. Of the 5,571 pregnant people who filled a prescription for amphetamines during the first trimester, 253 (4.54%) were diagnosed with malformations. In infants who were not exposed, 62,966 (3.5%) of the nearly 1.8 million infants developed malformations. After adjusting for underlying psychiatric disorders and other potential confounders, no increased risks were observed for amphetamine use compared to controls. Animal studies identify long-term neurochemical and behavioral effects in offspring at clinically relevant amphetamine doses. A large cohort study evaluated stimulant use in the second half of pregnancy in 4,693 amphetamine/dextroamphetamine and 786 methylphenidate-exposed pregnancies compared to 2,496,711 unexposed pregnancies. This study found exposure to these medications in utero did not increase the risk of childhood neurodevelopmental disorders after adjustment for confounders, such as demographic characteristics and maternal ADHD or mental health diagnoses. There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors outcomes in pregnant people exposed to ADHD medications. Care teams are encouraged to register patients at https://womensmentalhealth.org/research/postpregnancy/adhd-medications/ or by calling 1-866-961-2388.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding while taking methamphetamine. Amphetamines are present in human milk. Because there is no published experience with the use of methamphetamine as a therapeutic agent during lactation, alternatives may be preferred. Methylphenidate, dexmethylphenidate, and serdexmethylphenidate/methylphenidate are alternative options for treatment of ADHD in the breast-feeding individual, as limited data indicates that methylphenidate levels in milk are very low and not detectable in infant serum.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of dihydrocodeine and methamphetamine is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Urinary alkalinizers, such as acetazolamide, result in decreased renal excretion of amphetamines. Monitor for amphetamine-related side effects. Avoid concomitant use in amphetamine overdose situations. Urinary alkalinizers increase the proportion of non-ionized metabolites of the amphetamine molecule, resulting in decreased renal excretion of these compounds. Alkaline urine will significantly increase the half-life of methamphetamine.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering alfentanil with amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Alkalinizing Agents: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Almotriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Amantadine used concomitantly with psychostimulants can result in increased stimulant effects, such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia, and can lead to seizures or cardiac arrhythmias. Close monitoring of the patient is recommended.
Ambrisentan: (Minor) Sympathomimetics such as methamphetamine can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with methamphetamine.
Amifampridine: (Major) Carefully consider the need for concomitant treatment with methamphetamine and amifampridine, as coadministration may increase the risk of seizures. If coadministration occurs, closely monitor patients for seizure activity. Seizures have been observed in patients without a history of seizures taking amifampridine at recommended doses. Methamphetamine may increase the risk of seizures.
aMILoride: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
amLODIPine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for methamphetamine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of methamphetamine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Amoxapine: (Major) Concomitant use of amoxapine with sympathomimetics should be avoided whenever possible; use with caution when concurrent use cannot be avoided. One drug information reference suggests that cyclic antidepressants potentiate the pharmacologic effects of indirect-acting sympathomimetics, such as methamphetamine, however, the data are not consistent.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Antacids: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when arformoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Armodafinil: (Moderate) The use of armodafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines, (e.g., dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, amphetamine) has not been studied. In a single-dose study of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, a racemic compound containing armodafinil, no pharmacokinetic interactions occurred but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted. Patients receiving combination therapy of armodafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other stimulant-related side effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C: (Moderate) Concurrent use of amphetamines and gastrointestinal acidifying agents, such as ascorbic acid, vitamin C, should be used with caution. Vitamin C lowers the absorption of amphetamines, resulting in reduced efficacy. It may be advisable to separate times of administration. In addition, ascorbic acid acts as a urinary acidifier, which reduces the renal tubular reabsorption of amphetamines, accelerating amphetamine clearance and reducing the duration of effect. If combined use is necessary, the amphetamine dose should be adjusted according to clinical response as needed.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of methamphetamine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Due to the potential for increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with drugs with sympathomimetic activity such as methamphetamine. Consider monitoring the patient's blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if sympathomimetics are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Azilsartan: (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Benazepril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Benzoic Acid; Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. (Major) Methenamine and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate) are urinary acidifiers, and acidic urine will significantly decrease the half-life of methamphetamine. Urinary acidifying agents increase the concentration of the ionized species of the amphetamine molecule, which increases urinary excretion.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Bumetanide: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of buprenorphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
buPROPion: (Major) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as methamphetamine. If used together, use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Major) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as methamphetamine. If used together, use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Coadministration of buspirone with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Buspirone has some serotonergic properties. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, all serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants. Patients may need to reduce, limit, or avoid caffeine intake. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Calcium Carbonate: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium, Magnesium, Potassium, Sodium Oxybates: (Moderate) Sodium oxybate has the potential to induce seizures; it has been speculated that this effect may be mediated through the action of sodium oxybate at GABA receptors. Although convulsant effects occur primarily at high dosages, sodium oxybate should be used cautiously with psychostimulants that are known to lower seizure threshold such as the amphetamines. Note that CNS stimulants, including the amphetamines, methylphenidate, and modafinil are frequently used in the treatment of narcolepsy, and clinical trials involving the use of psychostimulants with sodium oxybate have not found the combinations to be unsafe. Pharmacodynamic interactions cannot be ruled out, however.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan: (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Captopril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Carbinoxamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for methamphetamine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of methamphetamine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) A dosage adjustment may be warranted for methamphetamine if coadministered with celecoxib due to the potential for celecoxib to enhance the exposure and toxicity of methamphetamine. Celecoxib is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, and methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) If concomitant use of tramadol and methamphetamine is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Chlorcyclizine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Chlorothiazide: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Chlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy. (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Chlorthalidone: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Citalopram: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like citalopram with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Citric Acid; Potassium Citrate; Sodium Citrate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Clemastine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Clevidipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
clomiPRAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
cloNIDine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like clonidine, when clonidine is used for blood pressure control. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of methamphetamine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy. (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of codeine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Cyproheptadine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Dacomitinib: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity, including serotonin syndrome, may be increased during concurrent use with dacomitinib. Concurrent use of dacomitinib, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, may increase exposure to the amphetamine increasing the risk for serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and dacomitinib should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Darunavir: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of methamphetamine may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of methamphetamine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of methamphetamine may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of methamphetamine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate. (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of methamphetamine may be elevated when administered concurrently with darunavir. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Darunavir is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Desipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Major) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as methamphetamine. If used together, use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of quinidine, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
dilTIAZem: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving doxazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as doxazosin.
Doxepin: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Doxylamine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm.
Dronedarone: (Moderate) Dronedarone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Methamphetamine is a substrate for CYP2D6. The concomitant administration of dronedarone and CYP2D6 substrates may result in increased exposure of the substrate and should, therefore, be undertaken with caution.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Eletriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Eliglustat: (Major) Coadministration of methamphetamine and eliglustat may result in increased plasma concentrations of methamphetamine. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients closely methamphetamine toxicity (e.g., restlessness, tremor, tachypnea, confusion, panic states, rhabdomyolysis). Methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate; eliglustat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of methamphetamine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) The plasma concentrations of methamphetamine may be elevated when administered concurrently with cobicistat. Clinical monitoring for adverse effects is recommended during coadministration. Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Eplerenone: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like eplerenone. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. Avoid excessive caffeine intake during use of methamphetamine. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, foods like chocolate, dietary supplements, or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, nausea, insomnia, or tremor. Patients should avoid medications and dietary supplements which contain high amounts of caffeine.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like escitalopram with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Esketamine: (Major) Closely monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of esketamine and an amphetamine. Coadministration of psychostimulants, such as amphetamines, with esketamine may increase blood pressure, including the possibility of hypertensive crisis.
Eslicarbazepine: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and may increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary. Additionally, amphetamines may delay the intestinal absorption of ethosuximide, ethotoin (hydantoin), phenobarbital, and phenytoin, the extent of absorption of these seizure medications is not known to be affected.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Methamphetamine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Etomidate: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when general anesthetics and methamphetamine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Methamphetamine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of general anesthetics.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Felodipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Use fenfluramine and amphetamines with caution due to an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) If concomitant use of fentanyl and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and fluoxetine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should also be used when salmeterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like fluvoxamine with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Food: (Moderate) Foods that acidify the urine such as cranberry juice, orange juice, or those that contain ascorbic acid, vitamin C may increase amphetamine renal excretion. Patients should not significantly alter their diets, however these changes are not expected to be clinically significant. (Moderate) Foods that alkalinize the urine such as beets, dairy products, kale, and spinach may slightly slow urinary excretion of amphetamines. Patients should not significantly alter their diets, however these changes are not expected to be clinically significant. (Moderate) In general, food does not significantly interact with the amphetamine stimulants, a dose may be taken with or without food. However, certain gastrointestinal acidifying agents (e.g., certain fruit juices, etc.) can lower the oral absorption of amphetamines. To ensure proper absorption, it may be prudent for the patient to avoid citrus fruits and citrus juices 1 hour before a dose, at the time of dosing, and for the 1 hour following a dose. In addition, the excretion of amphetamines is increased in acidic urine and decreased in alkaline urine. Foods that acidify the urine, such as cranberry juice, orange juice, or those that contain vitamin C (ascorbic acid) may increase amphetamine renal excretion. Conversely, foods that alkalinize the urine, such as beets, dairy products, kale, spinach may slightly slow urinary excretion of amphetamines. Patients should not significantly alter their diets, however, as these changes in urinary pH from foods are not expected to be clinically significant for most patients.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Fosinopril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Methamphetamine may delay the intestinal absorption of orally-administered phenytoin; the extent of phenytoin absorption is not known to be effected. Monitor the patient's neurologic status closely, as the amphetamines may also lower the seizure threshold in some patients on phenytoin or fosphenytoin.
Frovatriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Furosemide: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
General anesthetics: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when general anesthetics and methamphetamine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Methamphetamine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of general anesthetics.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Monitor for serotonin syndrome if concomitant use of gepirone and amphetamines is necessary. Both medications affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system; concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
guanFACINE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents, such as amphetamines, may increase blood pressure and reduce the antihypertensive effects of antihypertensive agents, such as guanfacine. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate periodically when prescribed together. Guanfacine may be used adjunctively to psychostimulants such as amphetamines in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Pharmacokinetic studies reveal that guanfacine does not influence lisdexamfetamine pharmacokinetics and lisdexamfetamine does not affect guanfacine pharmacokinetics. No dosage adjustments are required when guanfacine and amphetamines are used together for ADHD. Monitor heart rate, blood pressure and for sedation during ADHD treatment.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Hydantoins: (Major) Methamphetamine may delay the intestinal absorption of orally-administered phenytoin; the extent of phenytoin absorption is not known to be effected. Monitor the patient's neurologic status closely, as the amphetamines may also lower the seizure threshold in some patients on phenytoin or fosphenytoin.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydrocodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
HYDROmorphone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of hydromorphone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. (Major) Methenamine and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate) are urinary acidifiers, and acidic urine will significantly decrease the half-life of methamphetamine. Urinary acidifying agents increase the concentration of the ionized species of the amphetamine molecule, which increases urinary excretion.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imatinib: (Major) Imatinib is a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 and may increase concentrations of methamphetamine.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as indapamide. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Indapamide may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Iodixanol: (Major) Methamphetamine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ioflupane I 123: (Major) Hold amphetamines for 7 days, or at least 5 medication half-lives, prior to performing dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging with radiolabeled ioflupane. Amphetamines bind to the dopamine transporter which may interfere with striatal tracer binding and increase the risk for a false-positive scan.
Iohexol: (Major) Methamphetamine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iomeprol: (Major) Methamphetamine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iopamidol: (Major) Methamphetamine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Iopromide: (Major) Methamphetamine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ioversol: (Major) Methamphetamine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Irbesartan: (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when general anesthetics and methamphetamine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Methamphetamine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of general anesthetics.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Methamphetamine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Isradipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when general anesthetics and methamphetamine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Methamphetamine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of general anesthetics.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of lasmiditan and amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Levamlodipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Levorphanol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of levorphanol and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of linezolid. Linezolid possesses MAO-inhibiting activity and can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of the amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Linezolid also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue serotonergic drugs and institute appropriate medical management.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisinopril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Lithium: (Moderate) Coadministration of amphetamines and lithium may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Lithium has central serotonergic effects. Inform patients of the possible increased risk and monitor for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation, after a dose increase, or the addition of other serotonergic medications. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Loop diuretics: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of ritonavir, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Losartan: (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Loxapine: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Lurasidone: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Magnesium Salts: (Minor) Monitor for an increase in amphetamine-related adverse effects during concomitant antacid use. Increasing gastric or urine pH may increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for side effects in some patients. As antacids have rarely been observed to increase gastric or urinary pH above 6.5, antacid-related pH changes may be insufficient to warrant clinical concern in most patients.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Meclizine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Meperidine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of meperidine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Metaproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should also be used when metaproterenol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Methadone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of methadone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Urinary alkalinizers, such as methazolamide, result in decreased renal excretion of amphetamines. Monitor for amphetamine-related side effects. Avoid concomitant use in amphetamine overdose situations.
Methenamine: (Major) Methenamine and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate) are urinary acidifiers, and acidic urine will significantly decrease the half-life of methamphetamine. Urinary acidifying agents increase the concentration of the ionized species of the amphetamine molecule, which increases urinary excretion.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma. (Major) Methenamine and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate) are urinary acidifiers, and acidic urine will significantly decrease the half-life of methamphetamine. Urinary acidifying agents increase the concentration of the ionized species of the amphetamine molecule, which increases urinary excretion.
Methenamine; Sodium Salicylate: (Major) Methenamine and methenamine salts (e.g., methenamine; sodium acid phosphate) are urinary acidifiers, and acidic urine will significantly decrease the half-life of methamphetamine. Urinary acidifying agents increase the concentration of the ionized species of the amphetamine molecule, which increases urinary excretion.
Methyldopa: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like methyldopa. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Methylene Blue: (Contraindicated) Amphetamines should not be administered during or within 14 days after the use of methylene blue. Methylene blue is a potent, reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which can prolong and intensify the cardiac stimulation and vasopressor effects of amphetamines, potentially resulting in hypertensive crisis. Methylene blue also has the potential to interact with serotonergic agents, such as amphetamines, which may increase the risk for serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea), and in rare instances, death. Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported, primarily following administration of standard infusions of methylene blue (1 to 8 mg/kg) as a visualizing agent in parathyroid surgery, in patients receiving selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or clomipramine. It is not known if patients receiving other serotonergic psychiatric agents, such as amphetamines, with intravenous methylene blue are at a comparable risk or if methylene blue administered by other routes (e.g., orally, local injection) or in doses less than 1 mg/kg IV can produce a similar outcome. Published interaction reports between intravenously administered methylene blue and serotonergic psychiatric agents have documented symptoms including lethargy, confusion, delirium, agitation, aggression, obtundation, myoclonus, expressive aphasia, hypertonia, pyrexia, elevated blood pressure, seizures, and/or coma.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as amphetamines, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
metOLazone: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and mirtazapine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Modafinil: (Moderate) The use of modafinil with other psychostimulants, including amphetamines (e.g., amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine), has not been extensively studied. Patients receiving combination therapy of modafinil with other psychostimulants should be closely observed for signs of nervousness, irritability, insomnia, arrhythmias, or other CNS stimulant-related side effects. In single-dose studies of dextroamphetamine combined with modafinil, no significant pharmacokinetic interactions occurred, but a slight increase in stimulant-associated side effects was noted.
Moexipril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Molindone: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Morphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of morphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nalbuphine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of nalbuphine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Naratriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and nefazodone. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
NiCARdipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Nicotine: (Moderate) Nicotine use may potentiate the effects of the adrenergic agonists and the ergot alkaloids. If significant changes in nicotine intake occur, the dosages of these drugs may need adjustment.
NIFEdipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
niMODipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of ritonavir, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Nisoldipine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Methamphetamine lowers the seizure threshold and should be discontinued at least 48 hours before and for at least 24 hours after intrathecal use of contrast media.
Nortriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and fluoxetine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oliceridine and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Olmesartan: (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Oritavancin: (Moderate) Methamphetamine is metabolized by CYP2D6; oritavancin is a weak CYP2D6 inducer. Plasma concentrations and efficacy of methamphetamine may be reduced if these drugs are administered concurrently.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxycodone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
oxyMORphone: (Moderate) If concomitant use of oxymorphone and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and paroxetine use. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for serotonin syndrome.
Peginterferon Alfa-2b: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects associated with increased exposure to methamphetamine if peginterferon alfa-2b is coadministered. Peginterferon alfa-2b is a CYP2D6 inhibitor, while methamphetamine is a CYP2D6 substrate.
Perindopril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Major) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents. Due to the risk of unopposed alpha-adrenergic activity, amphetamines should be used cautiously with beta-blockers. Increased blood pressure, bradycardia, or heart block may occur due to excessive alpha-adrenergic receptor stimulation. In particular, amphetamines can inhibit the antihypertensive response to guanadrel, an adrenergic antagonist that causes depletion of norepinephrine in the synapse. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Phentermine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of phentermine and other medications for weight loss, such as amphetamines. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy have not been established. (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Phentolamine: (Major) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents. Due to the risk of unopposed alpha-adrenergic activity, amphetamines should be used cautiously with beta-blockers. Increased blood pressure, bradycardia, or heart block may occur due to excessive alpha-adrenergic receptor stimulation. Phentolamine may decrease, but not completely reverse, the pressor response of amphetamine overdose. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Phenytoin: (Major) Methamphetamine may delay the intestinal absorption of orally-administered phenytoin; the extent of phenytoin absorption is not known to be effected. Monitor the patient's neurologic status closely, as the amphetamines may also lower the seizure threshold in some patients on phenytoin or fosphenytoin.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of glycemic control when amphetamines are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Sympathomimetic agents, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Potassium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium Chloride: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium Citrate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving prazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as prazosin.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant amphetamine and epinephrine use. Amphetamines may potentiate the pressor effects of epinephrine.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents.
Propafenone: (Minor) Propafenone inhibits CYP2D6. Propafenone may theoretically increase concentrations of other drugs metabolized by the CYP2D6 isoenzyme. Caution is recommended when administering propafenone with other CYP2D6 substrates, such as methamphetamine, that have a narrow therapeutic range or where large increases in serum concentrations may be associated with severe adverse reactions.
Propofol: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when general anesthetics and methamphetamine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Methamphetamine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of general anesthetics.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Protriptyline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Quinapril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of quinidine, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
quiNINE: (Minor) Quinine inhibits CYP2D6 and may theoretically increase concentrations of other drugs metabolized by this enzyme. Caution is recommended when administering quinine with other CYP2D6 substrates, such as methamphetamine, that have a narrow therapeutic range or where large increases in serum concentrations may be associated with severe adverse reactions.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid other non-prescription products containing sympathomimetics since additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate or blood pressure may be additive. Patients should avoid use of non-prescription decongestants, such as phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine, while using racepinephrine inhalations. Patients should avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant or weight-loss effect, such as ephedrine and ephedra, Ma huang, and phenylpropanolamine. Patients taking prescription sympathomimetic or stimulant medications (including amphetamines, methylphenidate, dexmethylphenidate, isometheptane, epinephrine) should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine inhalations; consider therapeutic alternatives to racepinephrine for these patients.
Ramipril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Ranolazine: (Major) Ranolazine and/or metabolites are moderate inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzymes. Based on drug interaction studies with metoprolol, a CYP2D6 substrate, ranolazine may theoretically increase plasma concentrations of CYP2D6 substrates, such as methamphetamine, and could lead to toxicity for drugs that have a narrow therapeutic range. Lower doses of some CYP2D6 substrates than are usually prescribed may be needed during therapy with ranolazine; monitor therapeutic response during coadministration.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Remifentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering remifentanil with amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ritonavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that the risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of ritonavir, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be implemented.
Rizatriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Safinamide: (Contraindicated) Safinamide, a selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, is contraindicated for use with amphetamines due to the risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. The manufacturer of safinamide recommends that a period of at least 14 days elapse between the discontinuation of safinamide and the initiation of serotonergic agents. Hypertensive crisis has been reported in patients taking recommended doses of selective MAO-B inhibitors and sympathomimetic medications, such as amphetamines. Safinamide can cause hypertension or exacerbate existing hypertension, particularly at daily dosages exceeding those recommended by the manufacturer.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should also be used when salmeterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) The product labels for amphetamines contraindicate use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including selegiline, due to the risk of hypertensive crisis or serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. The manufacturers of selegiline products recommend caution and monitoring of blood pressure during concurrent use with sympathomimetics.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Serotonin-Receptor Agonists: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Coadministration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like sertraline with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, serotonergic drugs should be discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when general anesthetics and methamphetamine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Methamphetamine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of general anesthetics.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sodium Acetate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Citrate; Citric Acid: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Lactate: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sodium Oxybate: (Moderate) Sodium oxybate has the potential to induce seizures; it has been speculated that this effect may be mediated through the action of sodium oxybate at GABA receptors. Although convulsant effects occur primarily at high dosages, sodium oxybate should be used cautiously with psychostimulants that are known to lower seizure threshold such as the amphetamines. Note that CNS stimulants, including the amphetamines, methylphenidate, and modafinil are frequently used in the treatment of narcolepsy, and clinical trials involving the use of psychostimulants with sodium oxybate have not found the combinations to be unsafe. Pharmacodynamic interactions cannot be ruled out, however.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and amphetamines, which are CNS stimulants. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Coadministration of St. John's Wort with amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering sufentanil with amphetamines. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risks and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs.
Sulfacetamide; Sulfur: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of urinary alkalinizing agents and amphetamines. Medications that alkalinize the urine may interfere with amphetamine urinary excretion and increase amphetamine exposure and the risk for amphetamine-related adverse effects.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SUMAtriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Tapentadol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tapentadol and amphetamines is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Telmisartan: (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as indapamide. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Indapamide may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Terazosin: (Minor) Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed in patients receiving terazosin and amphetamines. Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as terazosin.
Terbutaline: (Major) Concomitant use of sympathomimetics with beta-agonists might result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with some sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation and effects such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia. Seizures or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thiothixene: (Major) Concurrent use of antipsychotics, such as thiothixene, and amphetamines should generally be avoided. Antipsychotics and amphetamines may interact pharmacodynamically to diminish the therapeutic effects of either agent through opposing effects on dopamine. Amphetamines are thought to block central dopamine reuptake, which has the potential to exacerbate psychosis, and antipsychotics, which are central dopamine antagonists, may diminish the effectiveness of amphetamines.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tipranavir: (Moderate) Warn patients that there are potentially serious drug interactions between tipranavir and prescription amphetamine therapy or illicit amphetamine use. The risk of amphetamine toxicity may be increased during concurrent use of potent CYP2D6 inhibitors such as tipranavir. Amphetamines are partially metabolized by CYP2D6 and have serotonergic properties; inhibition of amphetamine metabolism may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome or other toxicity. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue both the amphetamine and CYP2D6 inhibitor and initiate appropriate medical treatment.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Topiramate: (Moderate) Monitor for amphetamine-related adverse events if coadministered with topiramate. Concurrent use may increase amphetamine concentrations, resulting in potentiation of the action of amphetamines.
Torsemide: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as loop diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
traMADol: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tramadol and methamphetamine is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) If concomitant use of tramadol and methamphetamine is warranted, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue all serotonergic agents and initiate symptomatic treatment if serotonin syndrome occurs. The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome.
Trandolapril: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors). Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
traZODone: (Moderate) Coadministration of trazodone and amphetamines may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome has been reported with both drugs when taken alone, but especially when coadministered with other serotonergic agents. The MAOI activity of amphetamines may also be of concern with trazodone. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Serotonergic agents should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamterene: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like potassium-sparing diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Trimipramine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increase, during concomitant amphetamine and tricyclic antidepressant use. Adjust doses or use alternative therapy based on clinical response. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue therapy. Concomitant use increases the risk for potentiation of cardiovascular effects and serotonin syndrome. Amphetamines may enhance the activity of tricyclic antidepressants causing significant and sustained increases in amphetamine concentrations in the brain.
Triprolidine: (Moderate) Amphetamines may pharmacodynamically counteract the sedative properties of sedating H1-blockers. This effect may be clinically important if a patient is receiving an antihistamine agent for treatment of insomnia. Alternatively, if a patient is receiving an amphetamine for treatment of narcolepsy, the combination with a sedating antihistamine may reverse the action of the amphetamine. Coadminister with caution and monitor for altered response to drug therapy.
Tryptophan, 5-Hydroxytryptophan: (Major) Because of the potential risk and severity of serotonin syndrome, caution should be observed when administering amphetamines with other drugs that have serotonergic properties such as tryptophan. Serotonin syndrome is characterized by the rapid development of hyperthermia, hypertension, myoclonus, rigidity, autonomic instability, mental status changes (e.g., delirium or coma), and in rare cases, death. Further study is needed to fully elucidate the severity and frequency of adverse effects that may occur from concomitant administration of amphetamines and tryptophan. Patients receiving tryptophan and an amphetamine should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and during dosage increases. The amphetamine and tryptophan should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome occurs and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valsartan: (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Minor) Amphetamines may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised. Thiazide diuretics may also increase and prolong the actions of amphetamines by increasing the urinary pH. (Minor) Methamphetamine may increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Verapamil: (Minor) Amphetamines increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may counteract the activity of some antihypertensive agents, like calcium-channel blockers. Close monitoring of blood pressure is advised.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vilazodone. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as amphetamines and vortioxetine. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release and act as serotonin agonists. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Ziprasidone: (Minor) Serotonin syndrome has been reported during the combined use of amphetamine stimulants and other medications with serotonergic properties. Serotonin syndrome has been reported during postmarketing use of ziprasidone; however, a causal relationship has not been established.
ZOLMitriptan: (Moderate) Serotonin syndrome may occur during coadministration of serotonergic drugs such as methamphetamine and serotonin-receptor agonists. At high doses, amphetamines can increase serotonin release, as well as act as serotonin agonists. Inform patients taking this combination of the possible increased risk and monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome particularly after a dose increase or the addition of other serotonergic medications to an existing regimen. Discontinue all serotonergic agents if serotonin syndrome occurs and implement appropriate medical management.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Patients who are taking anticonvulsants for epilepsy/seizure control should use amphetamines with caution. Amphetamines may decrease the seizure threshold and increase the risk of seizures. If seizures occur, amphetamine discontinuation may be necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Methamphetamine may cause hypertension, sinus tachycardia, and palpitations. Stimulant medications such as methamphetamine cause an average increase in blood pressure of about 2—4 mmHg and in heart rate of about 3—6 bpm; individuals may have larger increases. Among 8 patients who took 10 mg of oral methamphetamine within an hour of arising for the day, the mean heart rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressure values determined in the afternoon were essentially the same as values determined at baseline. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and heart rate is recommended. Labile blood pressure and heart rate (hypotension or hypertension), palpitations, and sinus tachycardia may be signs of excessive dosages or overdose.Methamphetamine use, especially abuse or misuse, may cause cardiorespiratory arrest (cardiac arrest or respiratory arrest). Angina, cardiac arrhythmias including heart block, and circulatory collapse may be signs of excessive dosages or overdose. Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulant treatment at usual doses in children and adolescents with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems; sudden deaths, stroke, and myocardial infarction have been reported in adults taking stimulant drugs at usual doses for ADHD (see Contraindications). A prompt cardiac evaluation is advised for patients who develop exertional chest pain (unspecified), unexplained syncope, or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease.Methamphetamine overdosage can cause seizures. Also, stimulant use may lower the convulsive threshold (see Contraindications); discontinue methamphetamine if seizures occur.Dizziness, dysphoria, overstimulation, euphoria, tremor, restlessness, and headache are common adverse effects of methamphetamine. Among 7 healthy adults with no history of substance abuse, negative subjective feelings such as dizziness, jitteriness, diaphoresis, and palpitations increased over 3 days of twice daily methamphetamine receipt and were more common among patients who got 10 mg as compared with those who got 5 mg. Irritability, agitation, anxiety, hyperactivity, severe dermatoses, hyperreflexia, tachypnea, confusion, assaultiveness, hyperthermia, biting, diaphoresis, flushing or pallor, purposeless movements, coma, and rhabdomyolysis may also occur with acute overdosage or chronic intoxication. Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration is not advised, as extreme fatigue and mental depression may occur.Methamphetamine may exacerbate motor and phonic tics and Tourette's syndrome (see Contraindications). Exacerbation of tics may respond to dosage reduction of methamphetamine; in some cases the stimulant may need to be discontinued.Insomnia is a common adverse effect of methamphetamine. Of 127 children with ADHD, 30 had insomnia. One patient stopped methamphetamine due to headaches, insomnia, decreased appetite, and irritability. A subjective increase in trouble sleeping was reported by 7 healthy adults with no history of substance abuse who took oral methamphetamine 10 mg twice daily; 10 mg was given at 10 in the morning, and 10 mg was given at 6 in the evening. The effect was noted on the first day of methamphetamine administration and persisted over the 3 days of drug receipt. However, most of the objective (total sleep time, total non-REM sleep, sleep efficiency, number of movements) and subjective sleep disruptions occurred only on the first day of methamphetamine administration, which suggests that tolerance may have developed. Receipt of 10 mg of oral methamphetamine within 1 hour of awakening each day for 4 days reduced the mean total sleep time and sleep efficiency as compared with baseline values. The mean total sleep time fell from 481 minutes to 468 minutes while taking methamphetamine. The time spent in stage 1 non-REM sleep increased from a baseline of 34 minutes to 46 minutes. Marked insomnia may occur with chronic intoxication. Abrupt withdrawal after prolonged high dosage administration is not advised, as extreme fatigue and mental depression may occur. Also, changes have been noted on the sleep EEG.Diarrhea, constipation, xerostomia, dysgeusia, anorexia, and weight loss are adverse effects of methamphetamine. Among 7 healthy adults with no history of substance abuse who took methamphetamine 5 mg twice daily, total caloric intake was reduced by approximately 1150 kcal. The total caloric intake was reduced by approximately 1450 kcal after methamphetamine 10 mg twice daily. Each methamphetamine dose level was administered for 3 days, and the reduced caloric intake was sustained across all 3 active methamphetamine days. Both the number of daily eating occasions and the eating occasion size were reduced by methamphetamine. A carryover effect was noted on the first placebo day (day 4) after each methamphetamine dose period; the total caloric intake increased to near baseline amounts on placebo days 2 and 3. Of 127 children with ADHD, 18 had anorexia. One patient stopped methamphetamine due to headaches, insomnia, anorexia, and irritability. Methamphetamine is labeled only for the adjunctive treatment of obesity; methamphetamine use is only for a few weeks or until tolerance to the anorectic effect occurs (see Dosage). Nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain may occur with acute overdosage or chronic intoxicationCautious selection of methamphetamine recipients is imperative, as methamphetamine has been extensively abused; tolerance, extreme psychological dependence, physiological dependence, and severe social disability have occurred. Among 7 healthy adults with no history of substance abuse, an increase in feelings of a good drug effect or a 'high' increased on day 1 of methamphetamine 10 mg twice daily receipt. However, the feelings returned to baseline levels by day 3 of methamphetamine receipt. Ratings after receipt of 5 mg twice daily were not significantly different from placebo. In contrast to the short-lived positive subjective effects, negative subjective feelings such as dizziness, jitteriness, sweating, and palpitations increased over the 3 days of twice daily methamphetamine receipt and were more common among patients who got 10 mg as compared with those who got 5 mg. Abuse and/or misuse of methamphetamine have resulted in death. There are reports of patients who have increased the dosage to many times that recommended. Methamphetamine is contraindicated for use by patients with a history of drug abuse (see Contraindications).Growth inhibition has been reported with the long-term use of stimulants in children, but the effect of methamphetamine is unknown. Chronic use of amphetamines is expected to cause a suppression of growth similar to the effect observed with methylphenidate. Receipt of methylphenidate 7 days per week throughout the year to children 7—13 years of age appears to cause a temporary slowing in the growth rate (on average, a total of about 2 cm less growth in height and 2.7 kg less growth in weight over 3 years), without evidence of growth rebound during this period of development. Monitor patient growth during methamphetamine receipt. Methamphetamine interruption may be needed if expected height or weight gain does not occur.Difficulties with accommodation and blurred vision have been reported with stimulant treatment; methamphetamine is contraindicated for use by patients with glaucoma (see Contraindications). Toxic doses of methamphetamine can cause mydriasis and induce narrow-angle glaucoma in susceptible individuals. If increased intraocular pressure (IOP) occurs, discontinue methamphetamine, and manage increased IOP as per acute angle-closure glaucoma.Treatment emergent psychotic or manic symptoms such as hallucinations, delusional thinking, or mania in children and adolescents without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania can be caused by stimulants at usual doses. Among 3482 patients who were exposed to usual doses of methylphenidate or amphetamine for several weeks, 4 had treatment emergent psychotic or manic symptoms; none of the placebo-treated patients had such symptoms. Hallucinations, panic states, delirium, paranoia, and personality changes may also occur with acute overdosage or chronic intoxication. Chronic intoxication with methamphetamine may lead to a psychosis that is clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia. Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration is not advised, as extreme fatigue and mental depression may occur. If treatment emergent psychotic or manic symptoms occur, consider the potential causal role of methamphetamine; methamphetamine discontinuation may be appropriate.Amphetamines have been reported to occasionally cause impotence (erectile dysfunction) or changes in sexual desire (libido increase or libido decrease).Allergic reactions to amphetamines are rare, but occasionally urticaria does occur.Amphetamines stimulate the release of serotonin (5-HT) and may act as direct agonists on central serotonin receptors. Thus, amphetamines are both direct and indirect stimulants of serotonin activity. In rare cases, amphetamines may cause symptoms consistent with the serotonin syndrome when used with other medications (e.g., SSRIs) that enhance serotonin activity within the CNS (see Drug Interactions).
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    hypertension, palpitations, sinus tachycardia
    General Information
    Methamphetamine may cause hypertension, sinus tachycardia, and palpitations. Stimulant medications such as methamphetamine cause an average increase in blood pressure of about 2—4 mmHg and in heart rate of about 3—6 bpm; individuals may have larger increases. Among 8 patients who took 10 mg of oral methamphetamine within an hour of arising for the day, the mean heart rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressure values determined in the afternoon were essentially the same as values determined at baseline. Careful monitoring of blood pressure and heart rate is recommended. Labile blood pressure and heart rate (hypotension or hypertension), palpitations, and sinus tachycardia may be signs of excessive dosages or overdose.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    angina, cardiac arrest, chest pain (unspecified), myocardial infarction, respiratory arrest, stroke, syncope
    General Information
    Methamphetamine use, especially abuse or misuse, may cause cardiorespiratory arrest (cardiac arrest or respiratory arrest). Angina, cardiac arrhythmias including heart block, and circulatory collapse may be signs of excessive dosages or overdose. Rarely, sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulant treatment at usual doses in children and adolescents with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems; sudden deaths, stroke, and myocardial infarction have been reported in adults taking stimulant drugs at usual doses for ADHD (see Contraindications). A prompt cardiac evaluation is advised for patients who develop exertional chest pain (unspecified), unexplained syncope, or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      cardiac arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      respiratory arrest
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    seizures
    General Information
    Methamphetamine overdosage can cause seizures. Also, stimulant use at therapeutic dosages may lower the convulsive threshold in patients with a prior history of seizures, in patients with a history of EEG abnormalities without a history of seizures, and rarely in patients without a seizure history or EEG abnormalities (see Contraindications); discontinue methamphetamine if seizures occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dizziness, dysphoria, euphoria, headache, insomnia, restlessness, tremor
    General Information
    Dizziness, dysphoria, overstimulation, euphoria, insomnia, tremor, restlessness, and headache have been reported with use of methamphetamine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      euphoria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    tics, Tourette's syndrome
    General Information
    The onset or exacerbation of motor and verbal tics has been reported with use of CNS stimulants, including methamphetamine. Individuals should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of tics or Tourette syndrome; consider dose reduction or discontinuation of treatment if clinically indicated.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      Tourette syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      tics
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anorexia, bowel ischemia, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, weight loss, xerostomia
    General Information
    Anorexia is a common adverse reaction to stimulants, including methamphetamine. Diarrhea, constipation, xerostomia, dysgeusia, bowel ischemia, and weight loss have also been reported with use of methamphetamine.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bowel ischemia
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    physiological dependence, psychological dependence, tolerance, withdrawal
    General Information
    Psychological dependence, physiological dependence, and tolerance may occur with methamphetamine therapy. Abrupt discontinuation or a significant dose reduction of CNS stimulants after prolonged use may produce withdrawal symptoms that include dysphoria, depression, fatigue, vivid and unpleasant dreams, insomnia or hypersomnia, increased appetite, and psychomotor retardation or agitation. Signs and symptoms of chronic amphetamine abuse include severe dermatoses, marked insomnia, irritability, hyperactivity, personality changes, and psychosis with features indiscriminate from schizophrenia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      physiological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychological dependence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tolerance
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      withdrawal
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    growth inhibition
    General Information
    Growth inhibition has been reported with the long-term use of stimulants in children, but the effect of methamphetamine is unknown. Chronic use of amphetamines is expected to cause a suppression of growth similar to the effect observed with methylphenidate. Receipt of methylphenidate 7 days per week throughout the year to children 7—13 years of age appears to cause a temporary slowing in the growth rate (on average, a total of about 2 cm less growth in height and 2.7 kg less growth in weight over 3 years), without evidence of growth rebound during this period of development. Monitor patient growth during methamphetamine receipt (at minimum yearly). Methamphetamine interruption may be needed if expected height or weight gain does not occur.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      growth inhibition
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    blurred vision, mydriasis, visual impairment
    General Information
    Visual impairment, such as difficulties with accommodation (mydriasis) and blurred vision, have been reported with methamphetamine or treatment with other amphetamine-class CNS stimulants.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      mydriasis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      visual impairment
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    delirium, hallucinations, mania, paranoia, psychosis
    General Information
    Treatment emergent psychotic or manic symptoms such as hallucinations, delusional thinking, or mania in children and adolescents without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania can rarely be caused by stimulants at usual doses. Among 3482 patients who were exposed to usual doses of methylphenidate or amphetamine for several weeks, 4 had treatment emergent psychotic or manic symptoms; none of the placebo-treated patients had such symptoms. Hallucinations, panic states, delirium, paranoia, and personality changes may also occur with acute overdosage or chronic intoxication. Chronic intoxication with methamphetamine may lead to a psychosis that is clinically indistinguishable from schizophrenia. Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration is not advised, as extreme fatigue and mental depression may occur. If treatment emergent psychotic or manic symptoms occur, consider the potential causal role of methamphetamine; methamphetamine discontinuation may be appropriate.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      delirium
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      mania
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paranoia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    impotence (erectile dysfunction), libido decrease, libido increase, priapism
    General Information
    Amphetamines, like methamphetamine, have been reported to occasionally cause impotence (erectile dysfunction) or changes in sexual desire (libido increase or libido decrease). Frequent or prolonged erections have occurred during administration of amphetamine derivatives. Similar reactions, including priapism, have been reported during use of other ADHD medications such as methylphenidate and atomoxetine. Reported cases of priapism have occurred after a period of time on stimulant therapy and often subsequent to a dose increase. Priapism has also been reported during periods of drug withdrawal (e.g., drug holidays or discontinuation). Prolonged erections in male patients should be promptly reported, as immediate diagnosis and treatment are essential to avoid tissue damage.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      impotence (erectile dysfunction)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      libido increase
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      priapism
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    alopecia, anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, rash (unspecified), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria
    General Information
    Dermatologic and allergic reactions to amphetamines are rare, however serious events such as angioedema, anaphylactoid reactions, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis have all been reported with the use of amphetamine or amphetamine derivatives. Urticaria, rash (unspecified), hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, and alopecia have also been reported during the administration of amphetamines.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperhidrosis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    serotonin syndrome
    General Information
    Serotonin syndrome may occur when methamphetamine is used in combination with other drugs that enhance serotonin activity. Symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). If such symptoms emerge, discontinue methamphetamine and any concomitant serotonergic agent immediately and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      serotonin syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral vasoconstriction, skin ulcer
    General Information
    Stimulants used to treat ADHD, including methamphetamine, are associated with peripheral vasculopathy. Effects of peripheral vasoconstriction, including Raynaud’s phenomenon, were observed in postmarketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment. Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild and generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug. However, very rare sequelae include digital skin ulcer and/or soft tissue breakdown. Carefully monitor for digital changes during treatment with ADHD stimulants. Further clinical evaluation (e.g., rheumatology referral) may be appropriate for certain patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasoconstriction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      skin ulcer
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    agitation, anxiety, coma, flushing, hyperthermia, rhabdomyolysis, tachypnea
    General Information
    Rhabdomyolysis has been associated with the use of stimulants used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder; stimulant-induced rhabdomyolysis is most often associated with sympathomimetic toxicity. Irritability, agitation, anxiety, hyperactivity, severe dermatoses, hyperreflexia, tachypnea, confusion, assaultiveness, hyperthermia, biting, diaphoresis, flushing or pallor, purposeless movements, coma, and rhabdomyolysis may occur with acute overdosage or chronic intoxication. Abrupt cessation following prolonged high dosage administration is not advised, as extreme fatigue and mental depression may occur.33363
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rhabdomyolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      coma
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hyperthermia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tachypnea
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Amphetamines can cause a significant elevation in plasma corticosteroid levels; this increase is greatest in the evening. Amphetamines may cause laboratory test interference with urinary steroid determinations. These effects may need to be considered during testing.

Description
  Text
  Methamphetamine is an oral, centrally-acting stimulant approved for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, treatment guidelines do not support the use of methamphetamine for ADHD. Other stimulants, such as amphetamine and methylphenidate, are highly effective in the treatment of ADHD and are considered first-line therapies. Stimulants are also used in the treatment of narcolepsy, but methamphetamine is not approved for this purpose and rigorous evidence of high quality is lacking. While methamphetamine was once approved for short-term treatment of exogenous obesity in combination with lifestyle modifications, the risk of abuse and fast onset of tolerance to anorectic effects have caused methamphetamine to fall out of favor for obesity treatment, and the approved indication for weight loss was removed from methamphetamine labeling in 2019. The most common adverse effects associated with use of amphetamines include anorexia, abdominal pain, irritability, restlessness, insomnia, emotional lability, and tachycardia. Stimulants can induce or exacerbate psychiatric symptoms and close monitoring is recommended in patients with pre-existing psychosis or bipolar disorder. Amphetamines have a high potential for abuse and addiction and are contraindicated in patients with a history of substance abuse. Stimulants have also been associated with sudden death in patients with structural cardiac abnormalities; patients with structural heart defects, cardiomyopathy, or heart-rhythm disturbances may be at risk for adverse cardiac events.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Methamphetamine is a sympathomimetic amine with central nervous system (CNS) stimulant activity; the active metabolite is amphetamine. Methamphetamine's effects are mediated by the action of norepinephrine centrally and peripherally. The predominant mechanism of methamphetamine's CNS effects is to stimulate the release of several biogenic amines from storage sites in the nerve terminal. Each molecule of amphetamine that is taken up by the nerve terminal displaces one molecule of neurotransmitter. At typical doses, amphetamines stimulate the release of norepinephrine. At higher doses, dopamine is released from its storage sites accounting for some behavioral changes seen with amphetamine. It is thought that the release of dopamine is responsible for the reinforcing properties of amphetamine. At still higher doses, amphetamine stimulates the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT). It is this neurotransmitter that is thought to explain the overt psychotic behavior associated with amphetamine excess. Finally, amphetamine may act as a direct agonist on central 5-HT receptors. Thus, amphetamine is both a direct and an indirect stimulant. Indirect agonists are associated with tachyphylaxis due to the ever-decreasing supply of endogenous neurotransmitter than can be displaced from the nerve ending. Amphetamines may also inhibit monoamine oxidase (MAO), but this is a minor action. The primary sites of activity in the CNS appear to be in the cerebral cortex and the reticular activating system. Amphetamine-induced CNS stimulation produces a decreased sense of fatigue, an increase in motor activity and mental alertness, mild euphoria, and brighter spirits. These effects are believed to be due to stimulation of norepinephrine release from central noradrenergic neurons. Lithium may offset amphetamine-induced euphoria.
Peripheral actions: In the periphery, the actions of amphetamines are believed to occur through release of norepinephrine from the adrenergic nerve terminals and by a direct stimulant action on alpha- and beta-receptors. Amphetamines increase systolic and diastolic blood pressure and cause respiratory stimulation and weak bronchodilation. Heart rate typically increases slightly with normal therapeutic doses of stimulants (about 3 to 6 bpm); however, a reflexive decrease in heart rate in response to increased blood pressure can also occur. At high doses, such as in overdoses, amphetamine and its derivatives can cause significant hypertension, tachycardia, arrhythmias, and other serious complications. Amphetamines may produce mydriasis and contraction of the bladder sphincter.
Actions in ADHD: There is no conclusive evidence for the mechanism(s) of action of amphetamines on the mental and behavioral conditions in ADHD. Improved attention spans, decreased distractibility, increased ability to follow directions or complete tasks, and decreased impulsivity and aggression have been noted when stimulants are prescribed for the treatment of ADHD.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After oral administration, methamphetamine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. A mean concentration of 10.5 +/- 16 ng/ml was obtained 1.5—2 hours after a 5 mg oral dose; the mean concentration was 5.9 +/- 9 ng/ml 7.5—8 hours after the dose. After a 10 mg oral dose, a mean concentration of 22.9 +/- 20 ng/ml was obtained 1.5—2 hours later, and a mean concentration of 20.3 +/- 14 ng/ml was obtained 7.5—8 hours after the dose. After a single, oral 10 mg methamphetamine dose to five healthy adults, the mean plasma maximum concentration (Cmax) was 17.4 +/- 1.1 ng/ml, and the mean Cmax of amphetamine was 4.2 +/- 1.5 ng/ml. The mean time to the maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) of methamphetamine was 5.2 +/- 1.2 hours and of amphetamine was 15.9 +/- 4.5 hours.
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    In a pharmacokinetic study, administration of a single intravenous dose of 0.25 mg/kg of d-methamphetamine led to an amphetamine/methamphetamine area under the plasma-concentration time curve ratio of 0.163 +/- 0.079.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Systemic exposure to amphetamines is 20—30% higher in females as compared to males, but differences diminish when females are given weight-based dosing comparable to male subjects.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race does not appear to influence the pharmacokinetics of the amphetamines.
  Text
  Methamphetamine is given orally in prescription use. The drug is extensively metabolized by the liver; the drug undergoes aromatic hydroxylation, N-dealkylation, and deamination. At least 7 metabolites have been identified including the active metabolite, amphetamine. The estimated methamphetamine half-life was 15.9 hours ; according to the manufacturer, the half-life is 4—5 hours. Excretion occurs primarily in the urine and is dependent on urine pH. Alkaline urine will significantly increase and acidic urine will significantly decrease the half-life of methamphetamine. Approximately 62% of an oral dose is eliminated in the urine within the first 24 hours with about 33% as intact drug and the remainder as metabolites.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2D6
Methamphetamine is primarily demethylated by CYP2D6.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Avoid administration during the late evening because of the risk for insomnia.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    For ADHD, 20 to 25 mg/day PO is usually effective.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    For ADHD, 20 to 25 mg/day PO is usually effective.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    For ADHD, 20 to 25 mg/day PO is usually effective.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    6 to 12 years: For ADHD, 20 to 25 mg/day PO is usually effective.
Less than 6 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
