=== Pimavanserin (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 4846)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Pimavanserin is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson's disease psychosis.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 34 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): agitation, confusion, drowsiness, hallucinations, fecal incontinence, angioedema, dyspnea, edema, rash, urticaria, fatigue, infection, peripheral edema

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Avoid use of pimavanserin in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia...

Brand Names
  - NUPLAZID

Dosage Forms
  - NUPLAZID 10mg Tablet
  - NUPLAZID 34mg Capsule

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        34 mg PO once daily, without titration, is the recommended dosage. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Pimavanserin has been studied and FDA-approved for this specific indication after expert guidelines were published for various dementias and related BPSD conditions.
    Heading
    For the treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson disease psychosis

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Avoid use of pimavanserin in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, older adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. Pimavanserin should also be avoided in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias or other conditions that may increase the risk of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    No dosage adjustment is required in patients with mild to severe renal impairment or end stage renal disease (ESRD). However, due to increased exposure and risk of potential adverse effects, caution is advised in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute), renal failure, or ESRD. In a renal impairment study, dialysis did not appear to significantly affect the concentrations of pimavanserin.
    Headline
    dementia with psychotic disturbance, geriatric
    General Information
    Pimavanserin, an atypical antipsychotic, is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia who experience psychosis unless their hallucinations and delusions are related to Parkinson disease. Antipsychotics, including pimavanserin, pose a risk of increased mortality when used for dementia with psychotic disturbance in geriatric adults. Most of the deaths are cardiovascular (e.g., heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (e.g., pneumonia) in nature. A higher incidence of stroke and transient ischemic attack, including fatal stroke, has also been reported. The Beers Criteria label antipsychotics as potentially inappropriate medications for geriatric adults, except for specific indications like agitation in Alzheimer disease, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder adjunct therapy, Parkinson disease psychosis, or short-term use as part of an antiemetic regimen during chemotherapy. Avoid use in delirium, dementia, or non-psychotic Parkinson disease. Reserve antipsychotic use for when non-pharmacologic strategies have failed, are not possible, or the patient poses a danger to self or others. Due to the potential for hyponatremia and SIADH, monitor sodium levels. If antipsychotic use is necessary in those with a history of falls or fractures, consider reducing the use of other CNS depressants and implement other fall risk strategies. The U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) regulates antipsychotic use in long-term care facilities (LTCFs) and requires documented clinical justification. When used an antipsychotic to manage behavior, stabilize mood, or treat a psychiatric disorder, tapering as outlined in the OBRA guidelines should be attempted unless clinically contraindicated. Dosages and durations of treatment should align with prescribing labels, published literature recommendations, and expert guidelines. "As needed" (PRN) use for acute behavioral/medical situations in the LTCF must be limited to 14 days, and any use beyond this duration requires that the clinician evaluate the patient prior to continued use. Pimavanserin is not indicated for "as needed" use and should only be administered on a scheduled basis.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the use of pimavanserin during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations or miscarriage. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed in rats and rabbits exposed to oral pimavanserin during organogenesis at doses up to 10 and 12 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on AUC, respectively. Administration of pimavanserin to rats during pregnancy and lactation at doses 2 times the MRHD resulted in maternal toxicity and lower pup survival and body weight.
    Headline
    people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Consider pregnancy testing in people who may become pregnant prior to initiation of an antipsychotic, as there are limited controlled data regarding use of these agents during gestation. Ideally, health care providers should use pre-conceptual planning to help such individuals taking atypical antipsychotics balance the risk for illness relapse with the potential reproductive risk of continuing medication while pregnant.
    Headline
    neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero
    General Information
    Neonates and infants exposed to this medication in utero during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress and feeding disorders in these neonates. These complications have varied in severity and have ranged from self-limited to those requiring intensive care unit support and prolonged hospitalization. Because pimavanserin has no appreciable affinity for dopaminergic receptors, the potential effects on newborns from in utero exposure, if any, are unknown. Neonates exhibiting signs or symptoms of extrapyramidal effects or withdrawal should be carefully monitored. The knowledge about long-term neurobehavioral effects in offspring is limited for all antipsychotic agents and requires further investigation.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use pimavanserin with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of pimavanserin in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. If a lactating person is stabilized on pimavanserin, discontinuation of breast-feeding is likely not necessary. Experts recommend close monitoring of breastfed children exposed to antipsychotics via human milk for excessive drowsiness, lethargy, and appropriate development. Some antipsychotics may cause hyperprolactinemia and galactorrhea to varying degrees, and thus may interfere with proper lactation. Combination treatment with antipsychotics may increase the risk of adverse events.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no data on the use of pimavanserin during pregnancy to evaluate for a drug-associated risk of major congenital malformations or miscarriage. In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed in rats and rabbits exposed to oral pimavanserin during organogenesis at doses up to 10 and 12 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on AUC, respectively. Administration of pimavanserin to rats during pregnancy and lactation at doses 2 times the MRHD resulted in maternal toxicity and lower pup survival and body weight.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use pimavanserin with caution during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of pimavanserin in human milk, its effects on the breastfed child, or its effects on milk production. If a lactating person is stabilized on pimavanserin, discontinuation of breast-feeding is likely not necessary. Experts recommend close monitoring of breastfed children exposed to antipsychotics via human milk for excessive drowsiness, lethargy, and appropriate development. Some antipsychotics may cause hyperprolactinemia and galactorrhea to varying degrees, and thus may interfere with proper lactation. Combination treatment with antipsychotics may increase the risk of adverse events.

Interactions
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of adagrasib and pimavanserin due to the potential for increased pimavanserin exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If use is necessary, reduce pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and consider taking additional steps to minimize the risk for QT prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as alfuzosin. Based on electrophysiology studies performed by the manufacturer, alfuzosin has a slight effect to prolong the QT interval. The QT prolongation appeared less with alfuzosin 10 mg than with 40 mg. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Avoid coadministration of amisulpride and pimavanserin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Amisulpride causes dose- and concentration- dependent QT prolongation. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation.
Amobarbital: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin and clarithromycin should be avoided if possible. Clarithromycin is associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation. In addition, pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. Concurrent use of a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, is expected to increase pimavanserin exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the pimavanserin dose to 10 mg/day PO and closely monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Anagrelide: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as anagrelide. Torsades de pointes (TdP) and ventricular tachycardia have been reported with anagrelide. In addition, dose-related increases in mean QTc and heart rate were observed in healthy subjects. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, a cardiovascular examination, including an ECG, should be obtained in all patients prior to initiating anagrelide therapy. Monitor patients during anagrelide therapy for cardiovascular effects and evaluate as necessary.
Apalutamide: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as apalutamide. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Apomorphine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as apomorphine. Dose-related QTc prolongation is associated with therapeutic apomorphine exposure.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of arsenic trioxide with other drugs that may cause QT interval prolongation, such as pimavanserin. Torsade de pointes (TdP), QT interval prolongation, and complete atrioventricular block have been reported with arsenic trioxide use. Discontinue or select an alternative drug that does not prolong the QT interval prior to starting arsenic trioxide therapy. If concomitant drug use is unavoidable, frequently monitor electrocardiograms.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Pimavanserin should be avoided in combination with artemether; lumefantrine. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation. The administration of artemether; lumefantrine is also associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although there are no studies examining the effects of artemether; lumefantrine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation. Consider ECG monitoring if other QT prolonging drugs must be used with or after artemether; lumefantrine treatment.
Asenapine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as asenapine. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Atazanavir: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as atazanavir. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as atazanavir. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation. (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with cobcistat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as bedaquiline. Coadministration with other QT prolonging drugs may result in additive or synergistic prolongation of the QT interval. If coadministration cannot be avoided, obtain serum electrolyte concentrations and a baseline ECG prior to initiating bedaquiline. An ECG should also be performed at least 2, 12, and 24 weeks after starting bedaquiline therapy.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Major) Concomitant use of opioid agonists with pimavanserin may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, and death. Limit the use of opioid pain medications with pimavanserin to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect. If benzhydrocodone is initiated in a patient taking pimavanserin, reduce initial dosage and titrate to clinical response. If pimavanserin is initiated a patient taking an opioid agonist, use a lower initial dose of pimavanserin and titrate to clinical response. Educate patients about the risks and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation.
Bexarotene: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as bexarotene. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bosentan: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as bosentan. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as rilpivirine. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cannabidiol and pimavanserin. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of cannabidiol.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as carbamazepine. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with cenobamate as concurrent use may decrease pimavanserin exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Additionally, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of cenobamate and pimavanserin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Ceritinib: (Major) Pimavanserin should generally be avoided in patients receiving ceritinib due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, and loss of balance or coordination. Monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate that may cause QT prolongation. Ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Cetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with pimavanserin should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with pimavanserin should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as chloramphenicol. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Chloroquine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of chloroquine with pimavanserin due to the increased risk of QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain an ECG at baseline to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Chloroquine is associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); the risk of QT prolongation is increased with higher chloroquine doses. Pimavanserin also prolongs the QT interval.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as chlorpromazine. Chlorpromazine, a phenothiazine, is associated with an established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and ciprofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias, including torsade de pointes (TdP) and death, have been reported with cisapride. Because pimavanserin causes QT prolonging effects that may be additive to those of cisapride, coadministration is contraindicated.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin and clarithromycin should be avoided if possible. Clarithromycin is associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation. In addition, pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. Concurrent use of a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, is expected to increase pimavanserin exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the pimavanserin dose to 10 mg/day PO and closely monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as clozapine. Treatment with clozapine has been associated with QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrest, and sudden death.
Cobicistat: (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with cobcistat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with pimavanserin due to the risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary for crizotinib if QT prolongation occurs. Crizotinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as dabrafenib. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Darunavir: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as darunavir. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as darunavir. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation. (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with cobcistat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as darunavir. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation. (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with cobcistat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Dasatinib: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as dasatinib. In vitro studies have shown that dasatinib has the potential to prolong cardiac ventricular repolarization (prolong QT interval). Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Degarelix: (Major) Avoid coadminsitration of pimavanserin with degarelix due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Desflurane: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Patients should discuss their medication regimen with their surgeon or anesthesiologist prior to any surgical or other procedures with these anesthetics.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with deutetrabenazine due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. Deutetrabenazine may prolong the QT interval, but the degree of QT prolongation is not clinically significant when deutetrabenazine is administered within the recommended dosage range. Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pimavanserin and deutetrabenazine. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as quinidine. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Difelikefalin: (Moderate) Monitor for dizziness, somnolence, mental status changes, and gait disturbances if concomitant use of difelikefalin with CNS depressants is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for these adverse reactions.
Disopyramide: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as disopyramide. Disopyramide administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Dofetilide: (Major) Coadministration of dofetilide and pimavanserin is not recommended as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. Dofetilide, a Class III antiarrhythmic agent, is associated with a well-established risk of Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as rilpivirine. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Donepezil: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as donepezil. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as donepezil. Case reports indicate that QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) can occur during donepezil therapy.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Dronedarone administration is associated with a dose-related increase in the QTc interval. The increase in QTc is approximately 10 milliseconds at doses of 400 mg twice daily (the FDA-approved dose) and up to 25 milliseconds at doses of 1600 mg twice daily. Because pimavanserin causes QT prolonging effects that may be additive to those of dronedarone, coadministration is contraindicated.
droPERidol: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as droperidol. Droperidol administration is associated with an established risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). In December 2001, the FDA issued a black box warning regarding the use of droperidol and its association with QT prolongation and potential for cardiac arrhythmias based on post-marketing surveillance data. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Efavirenz: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as efavirenz. In addition, pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 and the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as efavirenz. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as efavirenz. In addition, pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 and the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as efavirenz. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as efavirenz. In addition, pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 and the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as efavirenz. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Elagolix: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as elagolix. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as elagolix. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Eliglustat: (Major) Eliglustat is predicted to cause PR, QRS, and/or QT prolongation at significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Because pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation, coadministration should generally be avoided.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with cobcistat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with cobcistat is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as rilpivirine. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as rilpivirine. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of encorafenib with pimavanserin due to the risk for decreased pimavanserin exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another strong inducer decreased pimavanserin exposure by 91%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with ensitrelvir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate; ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with pimavanserin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Entrectinib has been associated with QT prolongation. Pimavanserin also prolongs the QT interval.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as enzalutamide. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
eriBULin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as eribulin. If coadministration is necessary, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Esketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor patients receiving esketamine and pimavanserin for sedation and other CNS depressant effects. Instruct patients who receive a dose of esketamine not to drive or engage in other activities requiring alertness until the next day after a restful sleep.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as eslicarbazepine. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as etravirine. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Fenfluramine: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of fenfluramine and pimavanserin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimavanserin and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased pimavanserin exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the exposure of pimavanserin by approximately 70%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as fingolimod. Fingolimod initiation results in decreased heart rate and may prolong the QT interval. If coadministration cannot be avoided, after the first fingolimod dose, overnight monitoring with continuous ECG in a medical facility is advised for patients taking QT prolonging drugs with a known risk of torsades de pointes (TdP). Fingolimod has not been studied in patients treated with drugs that prolong the QT interval, but drugs that prolong the QT interval have been associated with cases of TdP in patients with bradycardia.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Contraindicated) The concurrent use of fluconazole with drugs that are associated with QT prolongation and are CYP3A4 substrates is contraindicated. Fluconazole has been associated with QT prolongation; pimavanserin has been associated with QT prolongation and is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4/3A5.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Fluphenazine, perphenazine, prochlorperazine, and trifluoperazine are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, these phenothiazines may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a risk of QT prolongation.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) There may be an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) during concurrent use of fluvoxamine and pimavanserin. Cases of QT prolongation and TdP have been reported during postmarketing use of fluvoxamine. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4. Further, pimavanserin should be avoided in combination with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, Because fosamprenavir has both strong CYP3A4 inhibitory and moderate CYP3A4 inducer properties, the outcome of this potential interaction is unpredictable.
Foscarnet: (Major) When possible, avoid concurrent use of foscarnet with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, such as pimavanserin. Foscarnet has been associated with postmarketing reports of both QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation. If these drugs are administered together, obtain an electrocardiogram and electrolyte concentrations before and periodically during treatment.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as fosphenytoin. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with fostemsavir due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. Supratherapeutic doses of fostemsavir (2,400 mg twice daily, four times the recommended daily dose) have been shown to cause QT prolongation. Fostemsavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Gabapentin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pimavanserin and gabapentin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as gemifloxacin. Gemifloxacin may prolong the QT interval in some patients. The maximal change in the QTc interval occurs approximately 5 to 10 hours following oral administration of gemifloxacin. The likelihood of QTc prolongation may increase with increasing dose of the drug; therefore, the recommended dose should not be exceeded especially in patients with renal or hepatic impairment where the Cmax and AUC are slightly higher. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gemtuzumab ozogamicin with pimavanserin due to the potential for additive QT interval prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of and as needed during treatment. Although QT interval prolongation has not been reported with gemtuzumab ozogamicin, it has been reported with other drugs that contain calicheamicin. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimavanserin with gilteritinib due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Both drugs have been associated with QT prolongation.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib with pimavanserin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Glasdegib therapy may result in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Goserelin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with goserelin due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Granisetron: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as granisetron. Use of granisetron in patients concurrently treated with drugs known to prolong the QT interval and/or are arrhythmogenic, may result in clinical consequences.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Patients should discuss their medication regimen with their surgeon or anesthesiologist prior to any surgical or other procedures with these anesthetics.
Haloperidol: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as haloperidol. QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been observed during haloperidol treatment. Excessive doses (particularly in the overdose setting) or IV administration of haloperidol may be associated with a higher risk of QT prolongation. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Histrelin: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin with histrelin should generally be avoided due to the risk of QT prolongation. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and hydroxyzine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibutilide: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as ibutilide. Ibutilide administration can cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP); proarrhythmic events should be anticipated. The potential for proarrhythmic events with ibutilide increases with the coadministration of other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Idelalisib: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as idelalisib. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Iloperidone: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin and iloperidone should be avoided. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation. Iloperidone has also been associated with QT prolongation; however, torsade de pointes (TdP) has not been reported. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of inotuzumab ozogamicin with pimavanserin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation and risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). If coadministration is unavoidable, obtain an ECG and serum electrolytes prior to the start of treatment, after treatment initiation, and periodically during treatment. Inotuzumab has been associated with QT interval prolongation. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Isoflurane: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Patients should discuss their medication regimen with their surgeon or anesthesiologist prior to any surgical or other procedures with these anesthetics.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of itraconazole and pimavanserin if possible due to the potential for additive effects on the QT interval and increased exposure to pimavanserin. If an alternative to itraconazole is not available and coadministration is unavoidable, the manufacturer recommends reducing the pimavanserin dose to 10 mg once daily. In addition, coadministration of itraconazole (a CYP3A4 inhibitor) with pimavanserin (a CYP3A4 substrate) may result in elevated pimavanserin plasma concentrations and an increased risk for adverse events, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation. If itraconazole therapy is stopped, it may be prudent to continue close monitoring for up to 2 weeks while itraconazole plasma concentrations decrease. The decline in itraconazole plasma concentrations may be even more gradual in patients with hepatic cirrhosis or who are receiving concurrent CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with pimavanserin due to an increased risk of QT prolongation. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QTc prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct any electrolyte abnormalities as clinically appropriate. An interruption of therapy and dose reduction of ivosidenib may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Prolongation of the QTc interval and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients treated with ivosidenib. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pimavanserin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of pimavanserin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin and clarithromycin should be avoided if possible. Clarithromycin is associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation. In addition, pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. Concurrent use of a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, is expected to increase pimavanserin exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the pimavanserin dose to 10 mg/day PO and closely monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Lapatinib: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval such as lapatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct electrolyte abnormalities prior to treatment. Lapatinib has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation; ventricular arrhythmias and torsade de pointes (TdP) have been reported in postmarketing experience with lapatinib.
Lasmiditan: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lasmiditan and pimavanserin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with pimavanserin as concurrent use may increase the risk of QT prolongation. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor ECG during treatment. Lefamulin has a concentration dependent QTc prolongation effect. The pharmacodynamic interaction potential to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram between lefamulin and other drugs that effect cardiac conduction is unknown. Pimavanserin also prolongs the QT interval.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lenvatinib with pimavanserin due to the risk of QT prolongation. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with lenvatinib therapy. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Letermovir: (Moderate) An increase in the plasma concentration of pimavanserin, a primary CYP3A4 substrate, may occur if given with letermovir, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily in patients who are also receiving treatment with cyclosporine because the combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to use of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor alone. In a drug interaction study, administration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased pimavanserin maximum plasma concentration and exposure by 1.5- and 3-fold, respectively.
Leuprolide: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin with leuprolide should generally be avoided due to the risk of QT prolongation. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Levocetirizine: (Moderate) Concurrent use of cetirizine/levocetirizine with pimavanserin should generally be avoided. Coadministration may increase the risk of CNS depressant-related side effects. If concurrent use is necessary, monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and pimavanserin due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of pimavanserin, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with ketoconazole is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lofexidine and pimavanserin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Monitor ECG if coadministration cannot be avoided. Additionally, monitor for excessive hypotension and sedation during coadministration as lofexidine can potentiate the effects of CNS depressants. Lofexidine prolongs the QT interval. In addition, there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with lonafarnib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Loperamide: (Major) Pimavanserin should be avoided in combination with loperamide. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation; high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Coadministration may further increase the risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Pimavanserin should be avoided in combination with loperamide. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation; high doses of loperamide have been associated with serious cardiac toxicities, including syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes (TdP), and cardiac arrest. Coadministration may further increase the risk of QT prolongation and TdP.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lopinavir with pimavanserin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. If use together is necessary, obtain a baseline ECG to assess initial QT interval and determine frequency of subsequent ECG monitoring, avoid any non-essential QT prolonging drugs, and correct electrolyte imbalances. Both drugs are associated with QT prolongation. (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as lorlatinib. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Lumateperone: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of lumateperone and pimavanserin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of macimorelin with drugs that prolong the QT interval, such as pimavanserin. Use of these drugs together may increase the risk of developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended. Treatment with macimorelin has been associated with an increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Mefloquine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as mefloquine. There is evidence that the use of halofantrine after mefloquine causes a significant lengthening of the QTc interval. Mefloquine alone has not been reported to cause QT prolongation.
Methadone: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as methadone. Methadone is considered to be associated with an increased risk for QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP), especially at higher doses (> 200 mg/day but averaging approximately 400 mg/day in adult patients). Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Methohexital: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and pimavanserin; both drugs have been reported to increase the QT interval. If coadministration cannot be avoided, consider obtaining electrocardiograms to monitor the QT interval. In clinical trials, QT prolongation has been reported in patients who received midostaurin as single-agent therapy or in combination with cytarabine and daunorubicin. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation; one pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic analysis suggested a concentration-dependent QTc interval prolongation in the therapeutic range.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as mifepristone, due to a potential increased risk of QT prolongation. In addition, because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as mifepristone. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as mitotane. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Modafinil: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as modafinil. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as moxifloxacin. Prolongation of the QT interval has been reported with administration of moxifloxacin. Post-marketing surveillance has identified very rare cases of ventricular arrhythmias including torsade de pointes (TdP), usually in patients with severe underlying proarrhythmic conditions. The likelihood of QT prolongation may increase with increasing concentrations of moxifloxacin, therefore the recommended dose or infusion rate should not be exceeded.
Nafcillin: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as nafcillin. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Nefazodone: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as nefazodone. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as nelfinavir. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Nevirapine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with nevirapine as concurrent use may decrease pimavanserin exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate and nevirapine is a weak CYP3A4 inducer.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and pimavanserin; significant prolongation of the QT interval may occur. Sudden death and QT prolongation have been reported in patients who received nilotinib therapy. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as olanzapine. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as olanzapine. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as olanzapine. Limited data, including some case reports, suggest that olanzapine may be associated with a significant prolongation of the QTc interval in rare instances. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of oliceridine with pimavanserin may cause excessive sedation and somnolence. Limit the use of oliceridine with pimavanserin to only patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concurrent use is necessary, use the lowest effective doses and minimum treatment durations needed to achieve the desired clinical effect.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifabutin. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of osilodrostat and pimavanserin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation. Osilodrostat is associated with dose-dependent QT prolongation.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with osimertinib if possible due to the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is necessary, periodically monitor ECGs and electrolytes; an interruption of osimertinib therapy and dose reduction may be necessary if QT prolongation occurs. Concentration-dependent QTc prolongation occurred during clinical trials of osimertinib. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with oxaliplatin due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias including fatal torsade de pointes have also been reported with oxaliplatin use in postmarketing experience.
Ozanimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ozanimod in patients taking pimavanserin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ozanimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ozanimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pimavanserin and pacritinib may decrease pimavanserin exposure and efficacy and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the exposure of pimavanserin by approximately 70%.
Paliperidone: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin and paliperidone should be avoided if possible. Paliperidone has been associated with QT prolongation; torsade de pointes (TdP) and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in the setting of overdose. According to the manufacturer, since paliperidone may prolong the QT interval, it should be avoided in combination with other agents also known to have this effect. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation. If coadministration is considered necessary and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmias, close monitoring is essential.
Panobinostat: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin and panobinostat is not recommended. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation. QT prolongation has also been reported with panobinostat therapy in patients with multiple myeloma in a clinical trial. If coadministration cannot be avoided, obtain an electrocardiogram at baseline and periodically during treatment. Hold panobinostat if the QTcF increases to >= 480 milliseconds during therapy; permanently discontinue if QT prolongation does not resolve.
Pasireotide: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as pasireotide. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of pazopanib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentamidine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Systemic pentamidine has been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Perphenazine: (Minor) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Fluphenazine, perphenazine, prochlorperazine, and trifluoperazine are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, these phenothiazines may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a risk of QT prolongation.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Fluphenazine, perphenazine, prochlorperazine, and trifluoperazine are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, these phenothiazines may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a risk of QT prolongation.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with pexidartinib as concurrent use may decrease pimavanserin exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the exposure of pimavanserin by approximately 70%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Phenytoin: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as phenytoin. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Pimozide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Because pimavanserin causes QT prolonging effects that may be additive to those of pimozide, coadministration is contraindicated.
Pitolisant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with pitolisant due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Both pimavanserin and pitolisant prolong the QT interval.
Ponesimod: (Major) In general, do not initiate ponesimod in patients taking pimavanserin due to the risk of additive bradycardia, QT prolongation, and torsade de pointes (TdP). If treatment initiation is considered, seek advice from a cardiologist. Ponesimod initiation may result in a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays. Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking concurrent QT prolonging drugs; however, QT prolonging drugs have been associated with TdP in patients with bradycardia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval.
Posaconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of posaconazole and pimavanserin is contraindicated. The manufacturer of posaconazole contraindicates concurrent use with drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates and prolong the QT interval. Pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4/3A5 and has been associated with QT prolongation.
Pregabalin: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of pimavanserin and pregabalin. Concurrent use may result in additive CNS depression.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Procainamide: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as procainamide. Procainamide is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Fluphenazine, perphenazine, prochlorperazine, and trifluoperazine are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, these phenothiazines may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a risk of QT prolongation.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of promethazine and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of propafenone and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of quetiapine and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as quinidine. Quinidine administration is associated with QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP).
quiNINE: (Major) Quinine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare cases of torsade de pointes (TdP). In addition, quinine is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. Avoid concurrent use of quinine with other drugs that prolong the QT and are CYP3A4 substrates, such as pimavanserin. Co-administration may result in an elevated plasma concentration of the interacting drug, causing an increased risk for adverse events, such as QT prolongation.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Pimavanserin should be avoided in combination with ranolazine. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and ranolazine is associated with dose- and plasma concentration-related increases in the QTc interval. The mean increase in QTc is about 6 milliseconds, measured at the tmax of the maximum dosage (1000 mg PO twice daily). However, in 5% of the population studied, increases in the QTc of at least 15 milliseconds have been reported. Although there are no studies examining the effects of ranolazine in patients receiving other QT prolonging drugs, coadministration of such drugs may result in additive QT prolongation.
Relacorilant: (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with relacorilant is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate; relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with relugolix due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with relugolix due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with repotrectinib as concurrent use may decrease pimavanserin exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A substrate; repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the exposure of pimavanserin by approximately 70%.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with ribociclib due to the risk of QT prolongation. Plasma concentrations of pimavanserin may also increase, resulting in treatment-related adverse reactions. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate that may cause QT prolongation. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Additive QT prolongation may occur.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with ribociclib due to the risk of QT prolongation. Plasma concentrations of pimavanserin may also increase, resulting in treatment-related adverse reactions. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate that may cause QT prolongation. Ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor that has been associated with concentration-dependent QT prolongation. Additive QT prolongation may occur.
Rifabutin: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with moderate CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifabutin. Moderate inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid use of rifampin with pimavanserin due to decreased pimavanserin exposure. Rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer; pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate. Monitor for reduced pimavanserin efficacy if concurrent use is required. Rifampin decreased the AUC by 91% when it was coadministered with pimavanserin during drug interaction studies.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with rifapentine as concurrent use may decrease pimavanserin exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong inducer decreased pimavanserin exposure by 91%.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as rilpivirine. Supratherapeutic doses of rilpivirine (75 to 300 mg/day) have caused QT prolongation. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
risperiDONE: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Risperidone has been associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and/or torsade de pointes; however, data are currently lacking to establish causality in association with torsades de pointes (TdP). Reports of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes during risperidone therapy are noted by the manufacturer, primarily in the overdosage setting. Consider the patient's underlying disease state(s) and additional potential risk factors if pimavanserin and risperidone coadministration cannot be avoided. If coadministration is chosen, and the patient has known risk factors for cardiac disease or arrhythmia, then the patient should be closely monitored clinically.
Ritonavir: (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with ritonavir is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as romidepsin. Romidepsin has been reported to prolong the QT interval. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. If romidepsin must be coadministered with another drug that prolongs the QT interval, the manufacturer recommends appropriate cardiovascular monitoring precautions, such as the monitoring of electrolytes and ECGs at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Saquinavir: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as saquinavir. Saquinavir boosted with ritonavir increases the QT interval in a dose-dependent fashion, which may increase the risk for serious arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes (TdP). If no acceptable alternative therapy is available, perform a baseline ECG prior to initiation of concomitant therapy and carefully follow monitoring recommendations.
Secobarbital: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as barbiturates. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with selpercatinib due to additive QT effects and increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Monitor ECGs more frequently for QT prolongation if coadministration is necessary. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. Concentration-dependent QT prolongation has been observed with selpercatinib therapy.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of sertraline and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as halogenated anesthetics. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. Patients should discuss their medication regimen with their surgeon or anesthesiologist prior to any surgical or other procedures with these anesthetics.
Siponimod: (Major) Avoid coadministration of siponimod and pimavanserin due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Consult a cardiologist regarding appropriate monitoring if siponimod use is required. Siponimod therapy prolonged the QT interval at recommended doses in a clinical study. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Solifenacin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as solifenacin. Solifenacin has been associated dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval. Torsades de pointes (TdP) has been reported with post-marketing use, although causality was not determined. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with pimavanserin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Sorafenib is associated with QTc prolongation. Pimavanserin also prolongs the QT interval.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of sotalol and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pimavanserin with sotorasib as concurrent use may decrease pimavanserin exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the exposure of pimavanserin by approximately 70%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) The use of St. John's Wort with pimavanserin should be avoided. Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding use of strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as St. John's Wort. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 can reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Stiripentol: (Moderate) Monitor for excessive sedation and somnolence during coadministration of stiripentol and pimavanserin. CNS depressants can potentiate the effects of stiripentol.
SUNItinib: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as sunitinib. Sunitinib can cause dose-dependent QT prolongation, which may increase the risk for ventricular arrhythmias, including torsades de points (TdP).
Tacrolimus: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as tacrolimus. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as telavancin. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as tetrabenazine. Tetrabenazine causes a small increase in the corrected QT interval (QTc). Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Thioridazine is associated with a well-established risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP). Because pimavanserin causes QT prolonging effects that may be additive to those of thioridazine, coadministration is contraindicated. Also, the manufacturer of pimavanserin recommends avoiding use of moderate inducers of CYP3A4, such as thioridazine, with pimavanserin because of a reduction in pimavanserin exposure, which has the potential to reduce the effectiveness of the drug.
Tipranavir: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends that the pimavanserin dose be reduced to 10 mg/day PO in patients receiving strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as tipranavir. If these agents are used in combination, the patient should be carefully monitored for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Tolterodine: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, tolterodine. Tolterodine has been associated with dose-dependent prolongation of the QT interval, especially in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. This should be taken into consideration when prescribing tolterodine to patients taking other drugs that are associated with QT prolongation.
Toremifene: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval, such as toremifene. Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose- and concentration-related manner. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Tradipitant: (Moderate) Monitor for CNS depression and warn patients against driving and other activities that require complete mental alertness if concomitant use of tradipitant with another medication associated with CNS depression is necessary. Concomitant use may increase the risk for CNS depression-related adverse effects.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Fluphenazine, perphenazine, prochlorperazine, and trifluoperazine are associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation. Theoretically, these phenothiazines may increase the risk of QT prolongation if coadministered with drugs with a risk of QT prolongation.
Triptorelin: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin with triptorelin should generally be avoided due to the risk of QT prolongation. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation. Androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may also prolong the QT/QTc interval.
Tucatinib: (Major) Reduce the dose of pimavanserin to 10 mg PO once daily and monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation if coadministration with tucatinib is necessary. Concurrent use may increase pimavanserin exposure. Pimavanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate; tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. In drug interaction studies, coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increased exposure to pimavanserin by 3-fold.
Vandetanib: (Major) Coadministration of vandetanib with pimavanserin should generally be avoided due to an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor ECGs for QT prolongation and monitor electrolytes; correct hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and/or hypomagnesemia prior to vandetanib administration. An interruption of vandetanib therapy or dose reduction may be necessary for QT prolongation. Vandetanib can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner; TdP and sudden death have been reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of vardenafil and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Vemurafenib has been associated with QT prolongation. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation. If vemurafenib and another drug that is associated with a possible risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) must be coadministered, ECG monitoring is recommended; closely monitor the patient for QT interval prolongation.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of venlafaxine and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of pimavanserin and voclosporin due to the risk of additive QT prolongation. Pimavanserin prolongs the QT interval. Voclosporin has been associated with QT prolongation at supratherapeutic doses.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Coadministration of pimavanserin and clarithromycin should be avoided if possible. Clarithromycin is associated with a risk for QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP); pimavanserin may also cause QT prolongation. In addition, pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. Concurrent use of a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, such as clarithromycin, is expected to increase pimavanserin exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided, reduce the pimavanserin dose to 10 mg/day PO and closely monitor for pimavanserin-related adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of voriconazole and pimavanserin if possible due to the potential for additive effects on the QT interval and increased exposure to pimavanserin. If an alternative to voriconazole is not available and coadministration is unavoidable, the manufacturer recommends reducing the pimavanserin dose to 10 mg once daily. Both drugs have been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and voriconazole has also been associated with rare cases of torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest, and sudden death. In addition, coadministration of voriconazole (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) with pimavanserin (a CYP3A4 substrate) may result in elevated pimavanserin plasma concentrations and an increased risk for adverse events, including nausea, vomiting, confusion, loss of balance or coordination, and QT prolongation. Correct any electrolyte abnormalities (i.e., potassium, magnesium, calcium) before initiating concurrent therapy.
Vorinostat: (Major) Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. Vorinostat therapy is also associated with a risk of QT prolongation. Coadministration may increase the risk for QT prolongation.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of ziprasidone and pimavanserin should be avoided due to the potential for additive QT prolongation. Clinical trial data indicate that ziprasidone causes QT prolongation; there are postmarketing reports of torsade de pointes (TdP) in patients with multiple confounding factors. Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation and should generally be avoided in patients receiving other medications known to prolong the QT interval. In addition, both drugs are dopamine antagonists and additive effects are possible; however, an interaction has not been confirmed.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid the use of multiple sedating agents due to the risk for additive CNS depression. If use is necessary, consider a downward dosage adjustment of either or both medications, especially in patients with additional risk factors for sedation-related harm.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    agitation, confusion, drowsiness, hallucinations
    General Information
    During short-term premarketing studies of pimavanserin, centrally-mediated effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving pimavanserin and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo included: visual, auditory, tactile, or somatic hallucinations (5%) and confusion or confusional state (6%). There were no clinically relevant differences in the incidence of adverse reactions between those with a baseline Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score of less than 25 versus those with a baseline MMSE score of 25 or more. There were also no differences in safety on the basis of age (75 years of age and younger versus older than 75 years) or gender. More than twice as many patients in the active treatment groups discontinued treatment due to hallucinations (2%) than in the placebo groups. Somnolence (drowsiness), agitation, and aggression have been reported during postmarketing use.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      agitation
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    constipation, fecal incontinence, nausea
    General Information
    During short-term premarketing studies of pimavanserin, adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving pimavanserin and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo included: nausea (7%) and constipation (4%). Fecal incontinence has also been reported with postmarketing use. There were no clinically relevant differences in the incidence of adverse reactions between those with a baseline Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) score of less than 25 versus those with a baseline MMSE score of 25 or more. There were also no differences in safety on the basis of age (75 years of age and younger versus older than 75 years) or gender.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fecal incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    angioedema, dyspnea, edema, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions that have been reported during postmarketing use of pimavanserin include rash (unspecified), urticaria, and reactions consistent with angioedema, such as tongue swelling, circumoral edema, throat tightness, and dyspnea.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    fatigue, infection, peripheral edema
    General Information
    During short-term premarketing studies of pimavanserin, general disorders that occurred in at least 2% of patients receiving pimavanserin and more frequently than in patients receiving placebo included: peripheral edema (7%) and gait disturbance (2%). There were no clinically relevant differences in the incidence of adverse reactions between those with a baseline Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) score of less than 25 versus those with a baseline MMSE score of 25 or more. There were also no differences in safety on the basis of age (75 years of age and younger versus older than 75 years) or gender. Adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of treatment that occurred in more than one patient and with an incidence in the active treatment group of at least twice that of the placebo group included urinary tract infection (1%) and fatigue (1%). Falls have been reported during postmarketing experience. (
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    QT prolongation
    General Information
    Pimavanserin may cause QT prolongation. The effect of pimavanserin on the QTc interval was evaluated in a placebo-controlled, parallel study of healthy subjects (n = 252). A central tendency analysis of the QTc data at steady-state demonstrated that the maximum mean change from baseline (upper bound of the two-sided 90% CI) was 13.5 (16.6) msec at a dose that was twice the therapeutic dose. In separate effectiveness studies, there was a mean increase of the QTc interval of about 5 to 8 msec in patients receiving 34 mg/day of pimavanserin. Sporadic QTcF values of 500 msec or more and change from baseline values of 60 msec or more were observed in subjects receiving 34 mg of pimavanserin; however, the incidence was generally similar between patients receiving pimavanserin and those receiving placebo. There were no reports of torsade de pointes or any differences from placebo in the incidence of other adverse reactions associated with delayed ventricular repolarization, including patients with hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson's disease psychosis. One pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic analysis suggested a concentration-dependent QTc interval prolongation in the therapeutic range.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    stroke
    General Information
    Pimavanserin, an atypical antipsychotic, is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis unrelated to hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson's disease psychosis. Atypical antipsychotic labels include a boxed warning indicating that geriatric patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotics are at an increased risk of all-cause mortality. Of 17 placebo controlled trials performed in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis receiving primarily atypical antipsychotics, the risk of death in the drug-treated patients was 1.6 to 1.7 times that of patients receiving placebo. Death typically occurred due to heart failure, sudden death, or infections (e.g., pneumonia). In rare instances, stroke and sudden death have been reported in the elderly with dementia-related psychosis receiving atypical antipsychotics.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Pimavanserin is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson's disease psychosis. In clinical trials, subjects with a diagnosis of Parkinson's Disease (PD) who had psychotic symptoms (hallucination and/or delusions) that started after PD diagnosis and were severe enough to warrant antipsychotic treatment were included for study. As with other atypical antipsychotics, QT prolongation is possible. Similar to other atypical antipsychotics, the pimavanserin prescribing label currently contains a boxed warning regarding the increased mortality risk noted in geriatric adults with dementia-related psychosis who are treated with antipsychotic drugs. Pimavanserin is not FDA- approved for the treatment of individuals with dementia who experience psychosis unless their hallucinations and delusions are related to Parkinson's disease. Interestingly, in 1 study which compared pimavanserin to other atypical antipsychotics in people with Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD), the mortality risk was lower among individuals with PDD taking pimavanserin than those taking comparator antipsychotics. Safety and effectiveness of pimavanserin in pediatric patients has not been established. In a clinical trial assessing use for the treatment of irritability associated with autism spectrum disorder, pimavanserin failed to demonstrate effectiveness in pediatric patients 5 to 17 years. Pimavanserin was FDA-approved in 2016.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  The exact mechanism of action of pimavanserin in treating hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson's disease psychosis is unknown. However, the effect could be mediated through a combination of inverse agonist and antagonist activity at serotonin 5-HT2A receptors, and to a lesser extent at 5-HT2C receptors. In vitro, pimavanserin demonstrates a high binding affinity at serotonin 5-HT2A receptors and a lower binding affinity at 5-HT2C receptors. Pimavanserin demonstrates low binding to sigma-1 receptors, and has no appreciable affinity to serotonin 5-HT2B, dopaminergic (including D-2), muscarinic, histaminic, or adrenergic receptors; the drug has no affinity for calcium channels.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    After single oral doses, the drug demonstrates dose-proportional pharmacokinetics. The median time to maximal concentration (Tmax) is 6 hours (range: 4 to 24 hours) and is generally unaffected by dose. A high-fat meal does not have a significant effect on the maximum concentration (Cmax) or AUC of pimavanserin exposure; therefore, pimavanserin may be taken without regard to meals.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Based on results of a hepatic impairment study, no dosage adjustments are recommended in patients with hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, the exposure of pimavanserin in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment was similar to exposure in patients with normal renal function. No dosage adjustment is required in patients with mild, moderate, severe or end stage renal disease (ESRD). Caution is advisable in patients with severe renal impairment and ESRD due to increased exposure to pimavanserin in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute). Hemodialysis did not appear to significantly affect the concentrations of pimavanserin.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Pharmacokinetic data are not available in pediatric patients.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of pimavanserin are not affected by age; therefore, no dosage adjustments are required in the geriatric population based on age alone.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of pimavanserin are not affected by gender.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of pimavanserin are not affected by ethnicity; therefore, no dosage adjustments are required based on race or ethnicity.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    The pharmacokinetics of pimavanserin are not affected by weight; therefore, no dosage adjustments are required based upon weight.
  Text
  Pimavanserin is administered orally. The drug is highly protein bound (about 95%). Hepatic metabolism of pimavanserin occurs mainly through CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. Formation of AC-279, the major active metabolite, occurs primarily by CYP3A4. The median Tmax of AC-279 is 6 hours. The mean plasma half-lives of pimavanserin and AC-279 are about 57 hours and 200 hours, respectively. During premarketing analysis, about 0.55% of a dose was eliminated unchanged in the urine and 1.53% was eliminated in feces after 10 days. Less than 1% of the administered dose of pimavanserin and AC-279 were recovered in urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP3A5
Pimavanserin metabolism occurs mainly through CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, and to a lesser extent by CYP2J2, CYP2D6, and various other CYP and FMO enzymes. The CYP3A4 enzyme is primarily responsible for the formation of the pimavanserin major active metabolite (AC-279). The recommended dose of pimavanserin during concurrent use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is 10 mg/day. Monitor for reduced efficacy if pimavanserin is used concurrently with strong CYP3A4 inducers. Inhibitors or inducers of other CYP enzymes do not produce clinically significant metabolic drug-drug interactions with pimavanserin. Based on in vitro studies, drug transporters are not significantly involved in the disposition of pimavanserin.
 
In vitro data indicate that pimavanserin is not an irreversible inhibitor of any of the major hepatic and intestinal human CYP enzymes involved in drug metabolism (e.g., CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4). AC-279 is neither a reversible or irreversible inhibitor of any of the major hepatic and intestinal human CYP enzymes involved in drug metabolism. AC-279 is not a clinically significant CYP3A inducer and is not expected to cause induction of other isoenzymes.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Tablets and Capsules
Administer once daily at approximately the same time of day.
May be administered with or without food.
Administer the capsules whole. Alternatively, the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled over a tablespoon (15 mL) of cool applesauce, yogurt, pudding, or a liquid nutritional supplement. Have the patient consume the drug/food mixture immediately without chewing; do not store for future use.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    34 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    34 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Not indicated.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Based on results of a hepatic impairment study, dosage adjustments are not necessary in patients with hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  CrCl 30 mL/minute or more: No dosage adjustment is required.
CrCl less than 30 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment is required. Due to increased exposure to pimavanserin in these patients and those with end stage renal disease, caution is advisable.
 
Intermittent Hemodialysis
No dosage adjustment is required. Caution is recommended in patients with ESRD due to increased systemic exposure to pimavanserin. In a renal impairment study, dialysis did not appear to significantly affect the concentrations of pimavanserin.
