=== Allogeneic Processed Thymus Tissue — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5363)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Allogeneic processed thymus tissue is donor thymus tissue approved for immune reconstitution in pediatric patients with congenital athymia.

Routes: implantable; Common adult doses: Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): alopecia, hemolytic anemia, hepatitis, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, myelitis, neutropenia, proteinuria, thrombocytopenia, fever, hypomagnesemia, seizures

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Allogeneic processed thymus tissue is not indicated for patients with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID).

ALLOGENEIC PROCESSED THYMUS TISSUE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

RETHYMIC

Indication Specific Dosing

General Dosing Information
Patients should receive allogeneic processed thymus tissue with immunosuppressive medications if they have evidence of maternal engraftment or an elevated response to phytohemagglutinin (PHA).
Screen all patients for anti-HLA antibodies before receiving allogeneic processed thymus tissue. Patients who are positive for anti-HLA antibodies should receive treatment from a donor who does not express those HLA alleles.
After allogeneic processed thymus tissue treatment, advise patients to continue infection control measures until the development of thymic function is established via flow cytometry. Adequate immune reconstitution to protect from infection takes at least 6 to 12 months after treatment. Counsel patients to practice good handwashing technique and minimize exposure to visitors. Monitor patients closely for signs of infection, including a fever. If a patient develops a fever, obtain blood and other cultures and treat with antibiotics if clinically indicated.
Patients should remain on immunoglobulin replacement therapy until all the following criteria are met: no longer on immunosuppression (at least 10% of CD3+ T cells are naive in phenotype), at least 9 months post-treatment, and PHA response within normal limits. Normal serum IgA is desirable but not required. Check the IgG trough concentration 2 months after immunoglobulin replacement therapy discontinuation. If the IgG trough concentration is in the normal range for age, patients can remain off immunoglobulin replacement. If the IgG trough concentration is lower than the normal range for age, patients must restart immunoglobulin replacement therapy and continue it for a year before retesting.
Maintain patients on Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia prophylaxis prior to and after allogeneic processed thymus tissue treatment until all the following criteria are met: no longer on immunosuppression (at least 10% of CD3+ T cells are naive in phenotype), at least 9 months post-treatment, PHA response within normal limits, and CD4+ T cell count more than 200 cells/mm3.
Vaccination of patients who receive allogeneic processed thymus tissue with inactivated or live vaccines is not recommended until immune-function criteria have been met. Inactivated vaccines may be administered once all the following criteria have been met: immunosuppressive therapies have been discontinued, immunoglobulin (IgG) replacement therapy has been discontinued, the total CD4+ T cell count is more than 200 cells/mm3, and there are more CD4+ T cells than CD8+ T cells (CD4+ more than CD8+). Do not give more than 2 inactivated vaccines per month. Do not administer live vaccines until patients have met the criteria for inactivated vaccines and have received vaccination with inactivated agents (e.g., tetanus toxoid). No additional vaccines (live or inactivated), except the inactivated influenza vaccine, should be given within 6 months after vaccination with a measles-containing vaccine or within 2 months after the varicella vaccine. Consider verifying response to varicella and measles vaccination with appropriate testing.


For immune reconstitution in pediatric patients with congenital athymia

Surgical implantation
Infants, Children, and Adolescents


5,000 to 22,000 mm2 of allogeneic processed thymus tissue/m2 recipient body surface area (BSA) implanted during surgical procedure. The dose is calculated by the manufacturer in advance for each specific patient; the amount of product provided is adjusted at the manufacturing facility to ensure the maximum dose for the patient cannot be exceeded. Up to 42 tissue slices are provided for each patient. The portion of the product that represents the minium dose is communicated by the manufacturing personnel at the time of the procedure.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

Treatment-Related Restrictions of Use

Allogeneic processed thymus tissue is not indicated for patients with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). During the allogeneic processed thymus tissue clinical program, 2 patients with SCID received treatment. One patient died 2 years after receiving treatment and the other patient died 3 years after receiving treatment.

renal failure, renal impairment


Baseline renal impairment or renal failure is considered a risk factor for death after treatment with allogeneic processed thymus tissue. In clinical studies, 10 of 105 patients had impaired renal function at baseline based on elevated screening creatinine. Within 1 year, 5 of the 10 patients died, and a sixth patient died 3 years after treatment. Consider baseline renal function when selecting immunosuppressants and ensure involvement of a nephrologist in the care of patients with renal impairment.


cytomegalovirus infection


Consider the benefits and risks of treatment prior to treating patients with cytomegalovirus infection. In clinical studies, 3 out of 4 patients with cytomegalovirus infection prior to allogeneic processed thymus tissue treatment died.


allogeneic stem cell transplant, organ transplant


Screen all patients for anti-HLA antibodies before receiving allogeneic processed thymus tissue. Patients who are positive for anti-HLA antibodies should receive treatment from a donor who does not express those HLA alleles. Patients who received a prior hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), including allogeneic stem cell transplant, or a solid organ transplant are required to undergo HLA matching. If the donor does not fully match the recipient, these patients are at an increased risk of developing graft versus host disease (GVHD). In addition to prior HCT, risk factors for GVHD include atypical DiGeorge anomaly phenotype and maternal engraftment. To minimize the risk of GVHD, HLA matching of allogeneic processed thymus tissue to recipient alleles that are not expressed in the HCT donor is recommended.


pregnancy


There are no available data regarding use of allogeneic processed thymus tissue during pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. Animal reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have not been performed with allogeneic processed thymus tissue.


breast-feeding


There is no information regarding the presence of cellular components of allogeneic processed thymus tissue in human milk, the effect breastfeeding may have on it, the impact of being breastfed by a person who received allogeneic processed thymus tissue as a child, or the effects of this tissue on milk production. Consider the benefits of breast-feeding, the risk of potential infant drug exposure, and the risk of an untreated or inadequately treated condition.


Pregnancy And Lactation


There are no available data regarding use of allogeneic processed thymus tissue during pregnancy to inform a drug-associated risk. Animal reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have not been performed with allogeneic processed thymus tissue.


Interactions

There are no drug interactions associated with Allogeneic Processed Thymus Tissue products.

Adverse Reaction
General Information

Safety data for allogeneic processed thymus tissue was derived from 10 prospective, single-center, open-label studies in patients (n = 105) who had at least 1 year of follow-up. Of the 105 patients, 29 patients died after receiving allogeneic processed thymus tissue. Within the first year, causes of death were due to infection or complications due to infection (n = 13), respiratory failure or hypoxia (n = 5), hemorrhage-related events (n = 3), and cardiorespiratory arrest (n = 2). Six patients died more than 1 year after treatment and the deaths were considered unrelated to treatment.

hypertension


Hypertension, occurring in 20 patients (19%) treated with allogeneic processed thymus tissue, was the most frequent adverse reaction reported during clinical trials.


cytokine release syndrome


Cytokine release syndrome was reported in 19 patients (18%) treated with allogeneic processed thymus tissue during clinical trials. All events occurred in association with anti-thymocyte globulin [rabbit] (ATG-R) treatment.


rash, urticaria


Rash, including granuloma skin, rash popular, and urticaria, was reported in 16 patients (15%) treated with allogeneic processed thymus tissue during clinical trials.


alopecia, hemolytic anemia, hepatitis, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, myelitis, neutropenia, proteinuria, thrombocytopenia


Autoimmune-related adverse reactions were experienced by 37 patients (35%) in the allogeneic processed thymus tissue clinical program. These events included thrombocytopenia (including idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura) in 13 patients (12%), neutropenia in 9 patients (9%), proteinuria in 7 patients (7%), hemolytic anemia, which includes autoimmune hemolytic anemia, Coombs-positive hemolytic anemia, and hemolysis, in 9 patients (9%), alopecia in 4 patients (4%), hypothyroidism in 2 patients (2%), autoimmune hepatitis in 2 patients (2%), and autoimmune arthritis (juvenile idiopathic and psoriatic arthritis) in 2 patients (2%). One patient (1%) each experienced transverse myelitis, albinism, hyperthyroidism, and ovarian failure. Most events occurred within the first year after treatment; however, the onset of autoimmune related events ranged from the 3 days before the surgical implantation procedure until 16 years post-treatment. Monitor complete blood counts with differential weekly for the first 2 months post-treatment and then monthly through 12 months post-treatment. Monitor liver enzymes, including aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase, serum creatine, and urinalysis monthly for 3 months and then every 3 months through 12 months post-treatment. Perform thyroid function studies prior to treatment and then at 6 months and 12 months post-treatment. After 12 months, perform testing annually.


renal failure


Renal failure or impairment, including acute kidney injury, proteinuria, and increased blood creatinine, was reported in 13 patients (12%) treated with allogeneic processed thymus tissue during clinical trials.


graft-versus-host disease


In clinical studies, graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) occurred in 11 (10%) patients treated with allogeneic processed thymus tissue. Of these 11 patients, 6 (55%) died. Seven patients (7%) experienced autologous GVHD, 3 patients (3%) experienced GVHD due to maternal cells, and 1 patient (1%) experienced GVHD due to cells from a prior hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT). GVHD may present as fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, elevated bilirubin and liver enzymes, enteritis, and/or diarrhea. Administer immunosuppressants to patients with elevated baseline T cell proliferative response to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) more than 5,000 cpm or more than 20-fold over background. Closely monitor for development of GVHD symptoms and treat promptly.


diarrhea, fever, hypomagnesemia, seizures


Additional adverse reactions were reported in patients treated with allogeneic processed thymus tissue during clinical trials. Hypomagnesemia was reported in 17 patients (16%); respiratory distress, including hypoxia and respiratory failure, was reported in 8 patients (8%); pyrexia (fever) was reported in 6 patients (6%); acidosis, including renal tubular acidosis and decreased blood bicarbonate, was reported in 6 patients (6%); diarrhea, including hemorrhagic diarrhea, was reported in 5 patients (5%); and seizures, including infantile spasms and febrile convulsions, were reported in 5 patients (5%).


infection


Allogeneic processed thymus tissue is a derivative of human tissue. When using products derived from human tissue components, the remote risk of infection via transmission of an infectious agent exists. Donors are screened for increased risk of infection, including viral infection, as well as clinical evidence of sepsis and communicable disease risks associated with xenotransplantation. Blood samples from the infant tissue donor or the birth mother are also tested for various infectious agents. Allogeneic processed thymus tissue is tested for sterility, endotoxin, and mycoplasma. In addition, the porcine- and bovine-derived reagents used in product manufacturing are tested for animal viruses, bacteria, fungi, and mycoplasma before use. These measures do not eliminate the risk of transmitting infectious diseases. Final sterility and mycoplasma test results are not available at the time of use, but any positive results from sterility testing will be communicated to the health care provider. Report all infections thought to have been transmitted by allogeneic processed thymus tissue to Enzyvant at 833-369-9868.


new primary hematologic malignancy


Due to underlying immune deficiency, patients receiving allogeneic processed thymus tissue may be at risk of developing new primary hematologic malignancy (post-treatment lymphoproliferative disorder). Test patients for EBV and CMV using PCR prior to and 3 months after treatment, or after any exposure to or suspected infection with CMV or EBV.


Description

Allogeneic processed thymus tissue is donor thymus tissue approved for immune reconstitution in pediatric patients with congenital athymia. Congenital athymia is a rare immune disorder where a patient is born without a thymus. Pediatric patients with this disease usually die within the first 2 years of life and may have repeated, life-threatening infections due to the lack of adequately working T cells. Allogeneic processed thymus tissue is composed of human donor-derived thymus tissue that is implanted into patients with congenital athymia to help reconstitute immunity. The safety and efficacy of allogeneic processed thymus tissue was based on 105 patients aged 1 month to 16 years with congenital athymia. Survival of pediatric patients with congenital athymia after treatment with a single administration of allogeneic processed thymus tissue was improved and most patients survived at least 2 years. Patients who receive allogeneic processed thymus tissue and survive past the first year generally survive long-term. Allogeneic processed thymus tissue also reduced the frequency and severity of infections over time. During clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions were hypertension, cytokine release syndrome, rash, hypomagnesemia, renal impairment or failure, thrombocytopenia, and graft versus host disease. Since allogeneic processed thymus tissue is unlikely to provide immune reconstitution sufficient to protect against infection until 6 to 12 months post implantation, patients should continue to follow strict infection control measures until thymic function is established.

Mechanism Of Action

Allogeneic processed thymus tissue is used to reconstitute immunity in patients who are athymic. The mechanism of action is thought to involve the migration of recipient T cell progenitors from the bone marrow to the implanted allogeneic processed thymus tissue slices, which allows for the development of naive immunocompetent recipient T cells. Starting at 6 to 12 months after treatment, evidence of thymic function can be observed with the development of naive T cells in the peripheral blood.

Pharmacokinetics

Allogeneic processed thymus tissue is implanted during a surgical procedure. The pharmacokinetic effects of allogeneic processed thymus tissue are not known.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Other Administration Route(s)

NOTE: Allogeneic processed thymus tissue implantation requires an experienced clinician who is part of a qualified surgical team. It also requires a specialized care setting involving a single surgical session at a qualified hospital.
Preparation
Product will arrive in a polycarbonate container in an insulated shipping box.
Use allogeneic processed thymus tissue prior to the time and date of expiration indicated on the polycarbonate container.
In the operating room, the manufacturing personnel will inspect the tissue containers as they are removed from the shipping containers. If damage, leaks, spillage, or evidence of contamination is noted, manufacturing personnel will alert the surgical team that the lot cannot be implanted.
Allogeneic processed thymus tissue consists of yellow to brown slices of processed tissue with varying thickness and shape. Each drug product dish contains up to 4 tissue slices that adhere to circular filter membranes on top of surgical sponges in 5 mL of medium. A slice is defined as the contents on a single filter membrane.
Match the patient's identity with the patient identifiers on the patient label on the polycarbonate container; do not remove the product containers from the polycarbonate container if the patient-specific label does not match the intended recipient.
Storage: Store in the polycarbonate container in the insulated shipping box until ready for use. Do not refrigerate, freeze, agitate, or sterilize the tissue.
 
Surgical Implantation
Up to 42 cultured allogeneic processed thymus tissue slices will be provided for each patient; the manufacturing personnel will communicate to the surgical team at the time of surgery the portion of the product that represents the minimum dose.
Allogeneic processed thymus tissue is implanted in the quadriceps muscle during a surgical procedure.
The surgeon should implant as many tissue slices as possible within the recommended dosage range.
Manufacturing personnel will record which allogeneic processed thymus tissue slices are used during surgery. If any slices are not administered to the patient, manufacturing personnel will return the tissue to the facility and dispose of the tissue as biohazardous waste.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Geriatric

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Adolescents

22,000 mm2 of allogeneic processed thymus tissue/m2 recipient body surface area (BSA) implanted during a surgical procedure.

Children

22,000 mm2 of allogeneic processed thymus tissue/m2 recipient body surface area (BSA) implanted during a surgical procedure.

Infants

22,000 mm2 of allogeneic processed thymus tissue/m2 recipient body surface area (BSA) implanted during a surgical procedure.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

RETHYMIC Implant

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in hepatic impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier