=== Desloratadine/Pseudoephedrine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 3425)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Desloratadine and pseudoephedrine are used together in a prescription-only extended-release oral preparation to treat nasal congestion and seasonal allergic rhinitis.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Desloratadine 5 mg/day PO and pseudoephedrine 240 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (pvcs), sinus tachycardia, stroke, supraventricular tachycardia (svt), anxiety, dizziness, dystonic reaction, hallucinations, headache, hyperactivity, insomnia, involuntary movements, psychosis, restlessness, seizures, tremor, weakness, appetite stimulation, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia

In an Overdose: Studies evaluating overdose situations of desloratadine (45 mg for 10 days) noted increases in mean heart rates of 9.2 bpm relative to placebo. In severe circumstances of excessive dosage/overdose, cardiac arrhythmias with circulatory collapse and accompanying hypotension, convulsions, coma, and respiratory failure may occur.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: This monograph discusses the contraindications of desloratadine and pseudoephedrine combination products for the relief of nasal congestion, and/or seasonal allergic rhinitis.

Brand Names
  - Clarinex-D

Dosage Forms
  - Clarinex-D 12 Hour 2.5mg-120mg Extended-Release Tablet

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage (24 hour extended-release tablets; e.g., Clarinex-D 24 Hour)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults, Adolescents, and Children 12 years and older
        Dosage Description
        1 tablet (desloratadine 5 mg with pseudoephedrine 240 mg) PO once daily.
      Heading
      Oral dosage (12 hour extended-release tablets; e.g., Clarinex-D 12 Hour)
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults, Adolescents, and Children 12 years and older
        Dosage Description
        1 tablet (desloratadine 2.5 mg with pseudoephedrine 120 mg) PO twice daily. Max: 2 tablets/day PO.
    Heading
    For the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis and accompanying nasal congestion

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the contraindications of desloratadine and pseudoephedrine combination products for the relief of nasal congestion, and/or seasonal allergic rhinitis. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual desloratadine or pseudoephedrine drug monograph for more specific information.
 
Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets (Clarinex-D) are contraindicated in any patient with a desloratadine or pseudoephedrine hypersensitivity, or a hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients. Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine is also contraindicated in patients with a loratadine hypersensitivity because desloratadine is a metabolite of loratadine. According to the manufacturer, desloratadine; pseudoephedrine is contraindicated in patients who have shown idiosyncratic reactions to any adrenergic agent or other drugs with chemical structures similar to desloratadine; pseudoephedrine. Manifestations of idiosyncratic reactions to adrenergic agents include: insomnia, dizziness, weakness, tremor or arrhythmias.
 
Due to the pseudoephedrine component, desloratadine; pseudoephedrine is contraindicated in patients with closed-angle glaucoma or urinary retention due to prostatic hypertrophy. Use desloratadine; pseudoephedrine with caution in patients with hyperthyroidism or diabetes mellitus since sympathomimetics can exacerbate these conditions. Use with caution in patients with increased intraocular pressure.
 
The effects of desloratadine; pseudoephedrine in those with hepatic impairment have not been studied. However, data from the use of desloratadine alone indicate that patients with mild to severe hepatic impairment have an approximate 2.4 fold increase in AUC and increase in mean elimination half-life compared with normal subjects. Therefore, desloratadine; pseudoephedrine should generally be avoided in patients with hepatic disease (see Dosage).
 
The effects of desloratadine; pseudoephedrine in those with renal impairment have not been studied. However, after administration of desloratadine 7.5 mg, the AUC values increased by about 1.2 and 1.9-fold in those with mild and moderate renal impairment, respectively. The AUC values increased by about 1.7 and 2.5-fold in those with severe renal impairment or those receiving hemodialysis, respectively. The primary elimination route for pseudoephedrine is renal excretion of the parent compound. Therefore, desloratadine; pseudoephedrine should generally be avoided in patients with renal impairment or renal disease, including renal failure.
 
Whether or not increased desloratadine; pseudoephedrine plasma levels are associated with adverse reactions is not known. Although dosage adjustments for desloratadine; pseudoephedrine are not recommended for the elderly based on age alone; the clinician should consider accompanying renal, hepatic or heart disease that may be more prevalent in the elderly population. Although the product is given in a fixed-dose and the product cannot be split in half, in some cases it may be appropriate to give a dose every other day. The clinician should more closely monitor the elderly for untoward effects if they are prescribed desloratadine; pseudoephedrine.
 
Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine should not be used in patients receiving MAOI therapy or within 14 days of stopping MAOIs.
 
Use desloratadine; pseudoephedrine with caution, if at all, in patients with cardiac disease. This medication is contraindicated in patients with severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease. Since pseudoephedrine is a vasoconstrictor and may increase heart rate and blood pressure via sympathomimetic effects, considerable caution should be used in patients with controlled or mild hypertension, heart failure, cardiomyopathy, or a history of cardiac arrhythmias, tachycardia, myocardial infarction, or angina.
 
The anticholinergic activity of H1-antagonists may result in thickened bronchial secretions in the respiratory tract thereby aggravating asthma or an asthmatic attack. However, these anticholinergic effects do not preclude the use of H1-antagonists in all asthmatic patients, particularly if the upper respiratory symptom is not a primary component of the illness. Because desloratadine possesses only weak anticholinergic properties, it would not be expected to adversely affect the respiratory status of most asthmatic patients.
 
The safety and effectiveness of desloratadine; pseudoephedrine in children < 12 years of age have not been established. Antihistamines generally should not be used in neonates due to the possibility of paradoxical CNS stimulation. Infants, particularly those that are premature, are at higher risk for adverse effects. The adverse effects of sympathomimetic agents can be severe, especially in infants and young children; CNS stimulation, increased blood pressure, and tachycardia may occur. In January 2007, the CDC warned caregivers and healthcare providers of the risk for serious injury or fatal overdose from the administration of cough and cold products to children and infants less than 2 years of age. This warning followed an investigation of the deaths of three (3) infants less than 6 months of age that were attributed to the inadvertent inappropriate use of these products. The symptoms preceding these deaths have not been clearly defined, and there is a lack of conclusive data describing the exact cause of death. The report estimated that 1519 children less than 2 years of age were treated in emergency departments during 2004—2005 for adverse events related to cough and cold medications. In October 2007, the FDA Nonprescription Drug Advisory Committee and the Pediatric Advisory Committee recommended that nonprescription cough and cold products containing pseudoephedrine, dextromethorphan, chlorpheniramine, diphenhydramine, brompheniramine, phenylephrine, clemastine, or guaifenesin not be used in children less than 6 years of age. In January 2008, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory recommending that OTC cough and cold products not be used in infants and children less than 2 years. An official ruling regarding the use of these products in children greater than 2 years has not yet been announced. The FDA recommends that if parents and caregivers use cough and cold products in children greater than 2 years, labels should be read carefully, caution should be used when administering multiple products, and only measuring devices specifically designed for use with medications should be used. While some combination cough/cold products containing these ingredients are available by prescription only and are not necessarily under scrutiny by the FDA, clinicians should thoroughly assess each patient's use of similar products, both prescription and nonprescription, to avoid duplication of therapy and the potential for inadvertent overdose.
 
Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C. No teratogenic or mutagenic effects were observed in animal trials with desloratadine; however, no adequate, well controlled studies exist in pregnant women. Some sympathomimetic amines are associated with minor malformations in animal species; however, human teratogenesis has not been suspected based on limited epidemiologic evidence. Caution should be exercised when desloratadine; pseudoephedrine is used during pregnancy. Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed.
 
Desloratadine and pseudoephedrine are distributed into breast milk. Concentrations of desloratadine in the breast milk and maternal serum are equivalent. Infants, particularly those that are premature, are at higher risk for adverse effects. Although the use of pseudoephedrine as a single entity is usually compatible with breast-feeding, the combination of desloratadine; pseudoephedrine has not been studied. Therefore, the decision whether or not a woman should continue breast-feeding her infant should take into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
 
Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine may cause drowsiness or somnolence in individual patients; therefore, patients receiving desloratadine; pseudoephedrine should be advised to avoid driving or operating machinery until the effects of the drug are known. Alternatively, CNS stimulation with seizures or severe hypotension may occur with sympathomimetic amines, such as pseudoephedrine.
 
Many over-the-counter (OTC) cold and/or allergy preparations contain pseudoephedrine. Patients should be warned not to combine desloratadine; pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets with any OTC antihistamines or decongestants due to the risk of additive toxicity.
 
Patients who have a history of dysphagia (i.e. difficulty in swallowing tablets) or who have known upper GI obstruction with gastrointestinal narrowing or abnormal esophageal peristalsis should be cautious in using the Clarinex-D extended-release tablets. Rarely, extended-release tablets (see loratadine; pseudoephedrine monograph, Contraindications section), may cause bowel or GI obstruction (blockage), especially in patients with severe narrowing of the bowel (esophagus, stomach or intestine). Alternative shorter-acting tablet formulations may be used in these patients. Patients should be reminded to drink a full glass of water when taking Clarinex-D. Clarinex-D 24 hour extended-release tablets have not been specifically associated with upper GI tract obstruction.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    cardiac disease, hypertension
    General Information
    Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine is contraindicated in patients with severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease. Sympathomimetics such as pseudoephedrine may raise heart rate and/or blood pressure in susceptible individuals. Use desloratadine; pseudoephedrine with caution in individuals with any cardiac disease or mild to moderate or controlled hypertension. People with heart disease or high blood pressure should check with their care team before nonprescription (OTC) use.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Desloratadine is a metabolite of loratadine and should not be used in patients with loratadine hypersensitivity.
    Headline
    prostatic hypertrophy, urinary retention
    General Information
    The prescribing label for desloratadine; pseudoephedrine states that the product is contraindicated in people with urinary retention. Use desloratadine; pseudoephedrine with caution in people with difficulty in urination due to prostatic hypertrophy, as sympathomimetic agents such as pseudoephedrine may aggravate urinary retention.
    Headline
    diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism
    General Information
    Use desloratadine; pseudoephedrine with caution in individuals with diabetes mellitus or hyperthyroidism. Sympathomimetic agents such as pseudoephedrine may aggravate these conditions.
    Headline
    closed-angle glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure
    General Information
    The prescribing label for desloratadine; pseudoephedrine states that the product is contraindicated in people with closed-angle glaucoma. Also use with caution in any individual with increased intraocular pressure as narrow-angle glaucoma may occur.
    Headline
    hepatic failure
    General Information
    Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine should generally be avoided in patients with hepatic failure or impairment. Desloratadine is extensively metabolized in the liver. A reduced initial dosage of desloratadine is recommended in people with hepatic impairment which cannot be accomplished with use of this fixed-dose product.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine should generally be avoided in patients with renal impairment or renal failure. A reduced initial dosage of desloratadine is recommended for people with renal impairment and renal failure which cannot be accomplished with this fixed-dose product. Pseudoephedrine should be used with caution in people with severe renal impairment (CrCl less than 30 mL/minute) and dosage reduction has been suggested for these individuals, which also cannot be accomplished with use of this combimation product. Due to decreased elimination and potential pseudoephedrine drug accumulation, patients with renal failure may be at increased risk for drug-related toxicity. Many experts recommend against pseudoephedrine use in severe acute or chronic kidney disease (CKD) or renal failure.
    Headline
    children, infants, neonates
    General Information
    Due to the risk for serious adverse reactions, the FDA recommends against administration of over the counter (OTC) cough and cold and allergy products to neonates, infants and children younger than 2 years of age. When administering OTC medications to older pediatric patients, they advise caregivers to read product labels carefully, use caution when administering multiple products to avoid duplication of ingredients, and use only measuring devices specifically designed for use with medications. Care teams should thoroughly assess the use of similar products, both prescription and nonprescription, to avoid duplication of therapy and the potential for inadvertent overdose.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine combination products are not recommended for use during pregnancy. Pseudoephedrine may reduce blood flow to the placenta and the fetus, and there is some evidence use may be associated with birth defects if used during early pregnancy. Evidence from case-control studies in human pregnancy indicate there may be an increased risk of gastroschisis, small intestinal atresia, and hemifacial microsomia in babies exposed in utero to pseudoephedrine, particularly in the first trimester. Non-pharmacologic methods (e.g., fluids and rest) are recommended to be tried first for symptomatic relief of colds or allergies during pregnancy. Pregnant patients should see their health care professional for a proper diagnosis and for treatment recommendations. Loratadine and cetirizine monotherapy are acceptable alternatives based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy. Results of a large cohort study of desloratadine use in pregnancy concluded that the safety profile of desloratadine is similar to loratadine and cetirizine.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Use desloratadine; pseudoephedrine with caution during breast-feeding. Both desloratadine and pseudoephedrine are distributed into breast milk. There are not sufficient data on the effects of desloratadine on the breastfed infant or on milk production. Pseudoephedrine has been reported to decrease milk production and has been reported to cause irritability in breastfed infants. Milk production over a 24-hour period was reduced by an average of 24% compared to placebo after a single 60 mg dose of pseudoephedrine based on concentrations in breast milk and assuming a maternal dose of 240 mg/day of pseudoephedrine, it was estimated that an infant would receive 4.3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose. Desloratadine is excreted into human milk in low amounts. The calculated average and maximum expected doses of desloratadine in milk were 1.1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose following dosing with loratadine (parent drug). Because of its lack of sedation and low milk concentrations, maternal use of desloratadine alone would not be expected to cause adverse effects in a breastfed infant. Consider alternatives, such as the use of loratadine or desloratadine alone if treatment is necessary. Guidelines recommend loratadine at the lowest dose as one of the preferred antihistamines in breast-feeding individuals.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine combination products are not recommended for use during pregnancy. Pseudoephedrine may reduce blood flow to the placenta and the fetus, and there is some evidence use may be associated with birth defects if used during early pregnancy. Evidence from case-control studies in human pregnancy indicate there may be an increased risk of gastroschisis, small intestinal atresia, and hemifacial microsomia in babies exposed in utero to pseudoephedrine, particularly in the first trimester. Non-pharmacologic methods (e.g., fluids and rest) are recommended to be tried first for symptomatic relief of colds or allergies during pregnancy. Pregnant patients should see their health care professional for a proper diagnosis and for treatment recommendations. Loratadine and cetirizine monotherapy are acceptable alternatives based on their excellent safety data and recommendation in multiple guidelines for use during pregnancy. Results of a large cohort study of desloratadine use in pregnancy concluded that the safety profile of desloratadine is similar to loratadine and cetirizine.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Use desloratadine; pseudoephedrine with caution during breast-feeding. Both desloratadine and pseudoephedrine are distributed into breast milk. There are not sufficient data on the effects of desloratadine on the breastfed infant or on milk production. Pseudoephedrine has been reported to decrease milk production and has been reported to cause irritability in breastfed infants. Milk production over a 24-hour period was reduced by an average of 24% compared to placebo after a single 60 mg dose of pseudoephedrine based on concentrations in breast milk and assuming a maternal dose of 240 mg/day of pseudoephedrine, it was estimated that an infant would receive 4.3% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose. Desloratadine is excreted into human milk in low amounts. The calculated average and maximum expected doses of desloratadine in milk were 1.1% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose following dosing with loratadine (parent drug). Because of its lack of sedation and low milk concentrations, maternal use of desloratadine alone would not be expected to cause adverse effects in a breastfed infant. Consider alternatives, such as the use of loratadine or desloratadine alone if treatment is necessary. Guidelines recommend loratadine at the lowest dose as one of the preferred antihistamines in breast-feeding individuals.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine : (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Doxylamine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; Pamabrom; Pyrilamine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Acetaminophen; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Moderate) Acetazolamide and methazolamide can decrease excretion and enhance the effects of pseudoephedrine. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors increase the alkalinity of the urine, thereby increasing the amount of nonionized pseudoephedrine available for renal tubular reabsorption. Use caution if acetazolamide or methazolamide is coadministered; monitor for excessive pseudoephedrine-related adverse effects.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-blockers: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Minor) It appears that antacids containing aluminum hydroxide may increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If aluminum-based antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Minor) It appears that antacids containing aluminum hydroxide may increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If aluminum-based antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) It appears that antacids containing aluminum hydroxide may increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If aluminum-based antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) It appears that antacids containing aluminum hydroxide may increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If aluminum-based antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Minor) It appears that antacids containing aluminum hydroxide may increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If aluminum-based antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
aMILoride: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Amoxapine: (Major) Concomitant use of amoxapine with sympathomimetics should be avoided whenever possible; use with caution when concurrent use cannot be avoided. One drug information reference suggests that cyclic antidepressants potentiate the pharmacologic effects of direct-acting sympathomimetics, but decrease the pressor response to indirect-acting sympathomimetics, however, the data are not consistent.
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Angiotensin II: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when arformoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Articaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Use atomoxetine with caution and monitor blood pressure in patients receiving concomitant pseudoephedrine due to potential effects on blood pressure.
Atropine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Azilsartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Benazepril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
BUPivacaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as pseudoephedrine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
buPROPion; Naltrexone: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as pseudoephedrine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Calcium Carbonate: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Minor) It appears that antacids increase pseudoephedrine plasma concentrations. This interaction can be avoided by separating the administration of pseudoephedrine and antacids by 1 to 2 hours. If antacids are used on a regular basis, an alternative to pseudoephedrine may be considered.
Calcium-channel blockers: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Captopril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Carbinoxamine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Cetirizine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlophedianol; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlorcyclizine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Chlorpheniramine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Clemastine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Clevidipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
cloNIDine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics, such as pseudoephedrine, can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of clonidine when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for loss of blood pressure control.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Cyproheptadine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Desflurane: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Desipramine: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
Dexbrompheniramine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Dexbrompheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Dexchlorpheniramine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Dextromethorphan; buPROPion: (Moderate) Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold, such as pseudoephedrine. Use low initial doses of bupropion and increase the dose gradually.
Dextromethorphan; diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
dilTIAZem: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
dimenhyDRINATE: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
diphenhydrAMINE: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
diphenhydrAMINE; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics. (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
DOPamine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Doxepin: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
Doxylamine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Doxylamine; Pyridoxine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm.
Droxidopa: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
ePHEDrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
ePHEDrine; guaiFENesin: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
EPINEPHrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with pseudoephedrine is contraindicated due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) CNS-stimulating actions of caffeine can be additive with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants; caffeine should be avoided or used cautiously. Excessive caffeine ingestion (via medicines, supplements or beverages including coffee, green tea, other teas, guarana, colas) may contribute to side effects like nervousness, irritability, insomnia, or tremor.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Felodipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Fexofenadine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant salmeterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Furosemide: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Minor) In vitro studies have demonstrated the positive inotropic effects of certain gingerol constituents of ginger; but it is unclear if whole ginger root exhibits these effects clinically in humans. It is theoretically possible that excessive doses of ginger could affect the action of vasopressors like pseudoephedrine; however, no clinical data are available.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant pseudoephedrine and formoterol use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
guaiFENesin; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Non-cardiovascular drugs with alpha-blocking activity such as haloperidol directly counteract the effects of pseudoephedrine and can counter the desired pharmacologic effect. They also can be used to treat excessive pseudoephedrine-induced hypertension.
Heparin: (Minor) Antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant actions of heparin, according to the product labels. However, this interaction is not likely of clinical significance since heparin therapy is adjusted to the partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and other clinical parameters of the patient.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
hydrOXYzine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imipramine: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 123: (Major) Discontinue medications that decrease norepinephrine uptake, such as pseudoephedrine, for at least 5 biological half-lives prior to iobenguane I 123 administration. Consider medication tapering or additional supportive therapy as appropriate to minimize the risk for precipitating pseudoephedrine withdrawal symptoms. Medications that decrease the uptake of norepinephrine can cause false negative imaging results. Increasing the dose of iobenguane I 123 will not overcome any potential uptake limiting effect of this medication.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Irbesartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Isoflurane: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isradipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when ketamine and pseudoephedrine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Pseudoephedrine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levalbuterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant albuterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levocetirizine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Moderate) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of pseudoephedrine. Closely monitor for increased blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as pseudoephedrine.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Loratadine: (Major) Desloratadine is the active metabolite of Loratadine. These 2 drugs should not be given at the same time due to the duplication of therapy and the resultant increase in desloratadine concentrations, which may lead to increased CNS or anticholinergic effects.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Desloratadine is the active metabolite of Loratadine. These 2 drugs should not be given at the same time due to the duplication of therapy and the resultant increase in desloratadine concentrations, which may lead to increased CNS or anticholinergic effects.
Losartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Meclizine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Metaproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should also be used when metaproterenol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
methazolAMIDE: (Moderate) Methazolamide can decrease the urinary excretion and enhance the clinical effects of pseudoephedrine. Use caution if methazolamide is coadministered; monitor for excessive pseudoephedrine-related adverse effects.
Methyldopa: (Major) Sympathomimetics, such as pseudoephedrine, can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of methyldopa when administered concomitantly. Blood pressure should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as pseudoephedrine, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Midodrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Moexipril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
NiCARdipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nicotine: (Minor) Vasoconstricting nasal decongestants such as oxymetazoline, phenylephrine, pseudoephedrine, and tetrahydrozoline prolong the time to peak effect of nasally administered nicotine (i.e., nicotine nasal spray); however, no dosage adjustments are recommended.
NIFEdipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
niMODipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nisoldipine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Norepinephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
Olmesartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Perindopril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Atropine blocks the vagal reflex bradycardia caused by pseudoephedrine, and increases its pressor effect. Patients need to be asked whether they have taken pseudoephedrine before receiving atropine.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Phentolamine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine is administered to patients taking metformin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Potassium-sparing diuretics: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Prilocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Protriptyline: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Quinapril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid other non-prescription products containing sympathomimetics since additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate or blood pressure may be additive. Patients should avoid use of non-prescription decongestants, such as phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine, while using racepinephrine inhalations. Patients should avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant or weight-loss effect, such as ephedrine and ephedra, Ma huang, and phenylpropanolamine. Patients taking prescription sympathomimetic or stimulant medications (including amphetamines, methylphenidate, dexmethylphenidate, isometheptane, epinephrine) should seek health care professional advice prior to the use of racepinephrine inhalations; consider therapeutic alternatives to racepinephrine for these patients.
Ramipril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Sacubitril; Valsartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide concurrently with sympathomimetic medications, such as pseudoephedrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and pseudoephedrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during concomitant salmeterol and pseudoephedrine use. Concomitant use may potentiate sympathetic effects.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sedating H1-blockers: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Selegiline: (Contraindicated) The product label for pseudoephedrine contraindicates use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) due to the risk of hypertensive crisis. Pseudoephedrine should generally not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use. Uncontrolled hypertension has been reported when taking the recommended dose of oral selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication. The manufacturers of selegiline products recommend caution and monitoring of blood pressure during concurrent use with sympathomimetics.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Avoid administration of pseudoephedrine products to patients who have recently undergone, or will soon undergo, a procedure or treatment that requires general anesthesia. Specifically, halogenated anesthetics may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of sympathomimetics, including pseudoephedrine.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sincalide: (Moderate) Sincalide-induced gallbladder ejection fraction may be affected by concurrent medications, including H1-blockers. False study results are possible; thorough patient history is important in the interpretation of procedure results.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during routine coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and pseudoephedrine, a CNS stimulant. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of pseudoephedrine and St. John's Wort. St. John's Wort has been shown to weakly inhibit monoamine oxidase and may potentiate the effects of pseudoephedrine on blood pressure.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Telmisartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Terazosin: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by alpha-blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Terbutaline: (Major) Concomitant use of sympathomimetics with beta-agonists might result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with some sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation and effects such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia. Seizures or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Torsemide: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamterene: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by diuretics. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses do not appear at high risk for significant elevations in blood pressure; however, increased blood pressure (especially systolic hypertension) has been reported in some patients.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
Trimipramine: (Major) Avoid use of pseudoephedrine and tricyclic antidepressants as tricyclic antidepressants may potentiate the effects of catecholamines.
Triprolidine: (Minor) Although desloratadine is considered a 'non-sedating' antihistamine, dose-related sedation has been noted. For this reason, it would be prudent to monitor for drowsiness during concurrent use of desloratadine with CNS depressants such as other H1-blockers.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valsartan: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives when administered concomitantly. (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Vasopressors: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Verapamil: (Moderate) The cardiovascular effects of pseudoephedrine may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by calcium-channel blockers. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  NOTE: This monograph discusses the adverse effects of desloratadine and pseudoephedrine combination products for the relief of nasal congestion, and/or seasonal allergic rhinitis. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual desloratadine and pseudoephedrine drug monographs for more specific information.Hypersensitivity reactions may occur with desloratadine; pseudoephedrine (Clarinex-D®). Rash (unspecified), pruritus, urticaria, edema, dyspnea and anaphylactoid reactions have all been reported as spontaneous adverse events reports with the single ingredient product desloratadine.Due to poor penetration into the central nervous system (CNS) and a low affinity for CNS H1-receptors, CNS effects are less with desloratadine as compared to the traditional H1-antagonists, such as diphenhydramine. Fatigue and somnolence is experienced in about 6% of patients taking desloratadine; pseudoephedrine. Patients should be warned about undertaking hazardous tasks, such as driving or operating machinery while taking desloratadine; pseudoephedrine, although the risk is relatively low. Higher doses (> 5 mg of desloratadine) may result in more pronounced somnolence.Anticholinergic side effects are minimal with desloratadine compared to most other H1-blockers; however, some patients experience xerostomia with the Clarinex-D® combination product (8%), which may be due primarily to the pseudoephedrine component. Pharyngitis has been reported in roughly 3% of patients using desloratadine; pseudoephedrine, although causality has not been determined. Dry mouth and throat may lead to throat irritation.As with any sympathomimetic agent, cardiovascular effects which may occur during pseudoephedrine therapy include cardiac arrhythmias (arrhythmia exacerbation), hypertension, stroke, myocardial infarction, chest pain (unspecified), or angina; these effects are more likely to occur at excessive dosage or in patients at risk (see Contraindications). Cardiac arrhythmias (< 2%) secondary to pseudoephedrine may include palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) or sinus tachycardia. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses (60 mg PO four times daily) do not appear at risk for elevations in blood pressure however, increased blood pressure may be seen in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. The effect of extended-release 240 mg pseudoephedrine (as that found in Clarinex-D®) on blood pressure fluctuations has not been evaluated. The manufacturer reports that tachycardia and palpitations have been observed with desloratadine in spontaneous adverse event reports. Studies evaluating overdose situations of desloratadine (45 mg for 10 days) noted increases in mean heart rates of 9.2 bpm relative to placebo. The QT interval was corrected for heart rate by both the Bazett method (increase of 8.1 msec) and the Friderica method (increase of 0.4 msec) vs. placebo. No adverse events were reported.Agitation, nervousness or hyperactivity (2—4%), dizziness (2%), headache (6%), and insomnia (5%) are more common CNS adverse effects reported with desloratadine; pseudoephedrine. Other CNS effects such as anxiety, confusion, dysphonia, lightheadedness, syncope, tremor, paresthesias, seizures, hyperkinesis, hypertonia, and psychological disturbances including depression, hallucinations and psychosis have been reported during therapy with pseudoephedrine. Elderly patients appear to be more sensitive to the CNS stimulation effects of the pseudoephedrine.Ocular effects can occur with pseudoephedrine products. These can include increased intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension) and photophobia.Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine can produce infrequent gastrointestinal (GI) and genitourinary (GU) effects such as nausea/vomiting (2%) and anorexia (2%). Patients who have a history of dysphagia (ie. difficulty in swallowing tablets) or who have known upper GI obstruction with gastrointestinal narrowing or abnormal esophageal peristalsis should be cautious in using the Clarinex-D® extended-release tablets. Rarely, extended-release tablets (see loratadine; pseudoephedrine monograph, Contraindications section) may cause bowel or GI obstruction (blockage), especially in patients with severe narrowing of the bowel (esophagus, stomach or intestine). Alternative shorter-acting tablet formulations may be used in these patients. Patients should be reminded to drink a full glass of water when taking Clarinex-D®. Clarinex-D® extended-release tablets should not be crushed or split to facilitate swallowing. Clarinex-D® tablets have not been reported to be specifically associated with upper GI tract obstruction.In spontaneous post-marketing adverse event reports for desloratadine elevated hepatic enzymes (including hyperbilirubinemia) and hepatitis have been documented. Causality with desloratadine is unknown.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: This monograph discusses the adverse effects of desloratadine and pseudoephedrine combination products for the relief of nasal congestion, and/or seasonal allergic rhinitis. Clinicians may wish to consult the individual desloratadine and pseudoephedrine drug monographs for more specific information.
    Headline
    acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), anaphylactoid reactions, dyspnea, edema, pruritus, rash, urticaria
    General Information
    Hypersensitivity reactions may occur with desloratadine; pseudoephedrine products. Rash (unspecified), pruritus, urticaria, edema, dyspnea and anaphylactoid reactions have all been reported as spontaneous adverse events reports with the single ingredient product desloratadine. During postmarketing experience with pseudoephedrine-containing products, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) has been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    drowsiness, fatigue
    General Information
    Due to poor penetration into the central nervous system (CNS) and a low affinity for H1-receptors, CNS effects are less with desloratadine as compared to the traditional antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine. Fatigue is experienced in about 3% to 4% of patients taking desloratadine; pseudoephedrine. The risk of mild drowsiness is low (2 to 3% and not significantly different from use of either drug alone). Higher doses (i.e., more than 5 mg of desloratadine) may result in more pronounced somnolence, but are not used in clinical practice.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pharyngitis, xerostomia
    General Information
    Anticholinergic side effects are minimal with desloratadine compared to most other antihistamines; however, some patients experience xerostomia (dry mouth) with the combination product (8%), which may be due primarily to the pseudoephedrine component, as the incidence rates for this event are similar to that experienced with extended-release pseudoephedrine alone (8%) vs. only 2% with use of desloratadine alone. Pharyngitis has been reported in roughly 3% of patients using desloratadine; pseudoephedrine. Dry mouth and throat may lead to throat irritation.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    angina, arrhythmia exacerbation, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), sinus tachycardia, stroke, supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
    General Information
    In postmarketing reports with desloratadine and/or pseudoephedrine, cardiovascular side effects have included sinus tachycardia and palpitations; if such events occur, consider desloratadine; pseudoephedrine product discontinuation. Pseudoephedrine, like other sympathomimetic amines, can produce cardiovascular effects in some patients. As with any sympathomimetic agent, rare cardiovascular effects which may occur during pseudoephedrine therapy include cardiac arrhythmias (arrhythmia exacerbation), hypertension, stroke, myocardial infarction, chest pain (unspecified), or angina; these effects are more likely to occur at excessive dosage or in patients at risk. In severe circumstances of excessive dosage/overdose, cardiac arrhythmias with circulatory collapse and accompanying hypotension, convulsions, coma, and respiratory failure may occur. Cardiac arrhythmias secondary to pseudoephedrine may include palpitations, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) or sinus tachycardia. Well-controlled hypertensive patients receiving pseudoephedrine at recommended doses (60 mg PO 4 times daily) do not appear at risk for elevations in blood pressure however, increased blood pressure may be seen in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. The effect of extended-release 240 mg pseudoephedrine on blood pressure fluctuations has not been evaluated. Studies evaluating overdose situations of desloratadine (45 mg for 10 days) noted increases in mean heart rates of 9.2 beats per minute relative to placebo. The QT interval was corrected for heart rate by both the Bazett method (increase of 8.1 msec) and the Friderica method (increase of 0.4 msec) vs. placebo. No adverse events were reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      angina
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      arrhythmia exacerbation
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      palpitations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      premature ventricular contractions (PVCs)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      sinus tachycardia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stroke
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hypotension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    anxiety, dizziness, dystonic reaction, hallucinations, headache, hyperactivity, insomnia, involuntary movements, psychosis, restlessness, seizures, tremor, weakness
    General Information
    Nervousness (2%), dizziness (2% to 3%), headache (6% to 8%), psychomotor restlessness (2% or less), and insomnia (5% to 10%) are more common central nervous system (CNS) adverse effects reported with desloratadine; pseudoephedrine. Pseudoephedrine, like other sympathomimetic amines, can produce central nervous system (CNS) stimulation in patients, and likely is the cause for effects such as insomnia, dizziness, nervousness, restlessness, or tremor. If these effects occur, consideration should be made to discontinue the drug product. Postmarketing experience with desloratadine has included CNS side effects of headache, dizziness, psychomotor hyperactivity, and seizures (reported in patients with and without a known seizure disorder). Involuntary movements such as extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g., dystonic reaction) and tics were also reported during postmarketing experience with desloratadine. In large doses (overdose or excessive dosage), sympathomimetics such as pseudoephedrine may give rise to giddiness, headache, muscle weakness, anxiety, restlessness, and insomnia. Many patients who have had excessive dosage or overdose of sympathomimetics like pseudoephedrine can present with toxic psychosis with agitation, delusions and hallucinations; some may develop convulsions.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      tremor
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dystonic reaction
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      restlessness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      involuntary movements
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hallucinations
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      psychosis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperactivity
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    ocular hypertension
    General Information
    Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine contains pseudoephedrine. Ocular effects can occur with pseudoephedrine products. These can include increased intraocular pressure (ocular hypertension). If increased intraocular pressure occurs, discontinue the drug.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    anorexia, appetite stimulation, nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine can produce infrequent gastrointestinal (GI) effects such as nausea (2%) and anorexia (2%). Increased appetite (appetite stimulation) has been reported during postmarketing experience. Nausea and vomiting may occur along with CNS and cardiovascular symptoms if pseudoephedrine dosage is excessive.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      appetite stimulation
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia
    General Information
    Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine contains desloratadine. In spontaneous postmarketing adverse event reports for desloratadine elevated hepatic enzymes (including hyperbilirubinemia) and hepatitis have been documented. Causality with desloratadine is unknown.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hepatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hyperbilirubinemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    urinary retention
    General Information
    Urinary retention may occur in patients at risk, such as patients with prostatic hypertrophy. Problems with micturation may also be a symptom of excessive pseudoephedrine dosage. Should signs or symptoms of urinary retention occur, desloratadine; pseudoephedrine should be discontinued.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      urinary retention
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Desloratadine and pseudoephedrine are used together in a prescription-only extended-release oral preparation to treat nasal congestion and seasonal allergic rhinitis. Desloratadine is a non-sedating, potent, second-generation long-acting antihistamine (H1-blocker). Desloratadine is the active metabolite of loratadine, with a relative potency of 10 to 20 times that of loratadine in vitro. Both loratadine and desloratadine are non-sedating; however, desloratadine does not cause QT prolongation, even when given in doses 4- to 9-times the recommended dose in adults. Pseudoephedrine is a sympathomimetic agent that stimulates alpha1-adrenergic receptors in vascular smooth muscle. This causes vasoconstriction, resulting in shrinkage of nasal mucous membranes, reduction of tissue hyperemia and edema, and an increase in nasal airway patency. Desloratadine with pseudoephedrine products were first approved by the FDA in 2005.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine products provide antihistaminic and decongestant properties to relieve the symptoms associated with seasonal allergic rhinitis.
Desloratadine: Similar to other antihistamines, desloratadine does not prevent the release of histamine as do cromolyn and nedocromil, but competes with free histamine for binding at the H1-receptor. This competitive antagonism blocks the effects of histamine on H1-receptors in the GI tract, uterus, large blood vessels, and bronchial smooth muscle. Blockade of H1-receptors also suppresses the formation of edema, flare, and pruritus that result from histaminic activity. At higher concentrations, H1-receptor antagonism becomes relatively irreversible. In vitro studies have demonstrated that desloratadine has a 15-fold higher affinity for the H1-receptor than does the parent compound, loratadine. Desloratadine does not readily cross the blood-brain barrier, and it preferentially binds at antihistamine receptors in the periphery rather than within the brain, which probably accounts for some of its non-sedating character. Desloratadine does not exert significant anticholinergic effects at therapeutic concentrations.
Pseudoephedrine: Pseudoephedrine is an agonist at both alpha- and, to a lesser degree, beta-adrenergic receptors. Like ephedrine, pseudoephedrine also has an indirect effect by releasing norepinephrine from its storage sites. By stimulating alpha-adrenergic receptors in the mucosa of the respiratory tract, pseudoephedrine shrinks swollen nasal mucous membranes, reduces tissue hyperemia, edema, and nasal congestion, and increases nasal airway patency. Also, drainage of sinus secretions is increased, and obstructed eustachian ostia may be opened. In some patients, especially those with preexisting cardiac disease receiving higher doses, pseudoephedrine may increase blood pressure or irritability of the heart muscle and may affect ventricular conduction.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Desloratadine: The desloratadine contained in Clarinex-D is not bioequivalent to monotherapy when desloratadine is given individually. Systemic exposure to desloratadine and 3-hydroxydesloratadine is 15—20% lower from the extended-release product vs. the single entity desloratadine. In single dose pharmacokinetic studies, the Tmax for desloratadine in Clarinex-D 12 Hour and Clarinex-D 24 Hour occurs at 4—5 hours and 6—7 hours post dose, respectively. Food or grapefruit juice have no effect on the extent of desloratadine absorption from extended-release products.
Pseudoephedrine: The mean Tmax for pseudoephedrine in Clarinex-D 12 Hour and Clarinex-D 24 Hour occurs at 6—7 hours and 8—9 hours post dose, respectively. The ingestion of food does not affect the absorption of pseudoephedrine from the extended release combination tablets.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    No studies have been conducted in hepatically impaired patients utilizing extended-release desloratadine; pseudoephedrine tablets. Desloratadine has been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Subjects with hepatic impairment, regardless of severity, had approximately a 2.4-fold increase in AUC as compared with normal subjects. The apparent oral clearance of desloratadine in subjects with mild, moderate, and severe hepatic impairment (using Child Pugh classification) was 37%, 36%, and 28% of that in normal subjects, respectively. An increase in the mean elimination half-life of desloratadine in subjects with hepatic impairment was observed. For 3-hydroxydesloratadine, the mean Cmax and AUC values for subjects with hepatic impairment were not statistically significantly different from subjects with normal hepatic function. The effect of hepatic impairment on pseudoephedrine pharmacokinetics is unknown.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine extended-release (ER) tablets are not recommended in patients with renal impairment. No studies have been conducted in renally impaired patients utilizing extended-release desloratadine; pseudoephedrine ER tablets. However, in single entity desloratadine studies in patients with mild (CrCl 51 to 69 mL/minute) or moderate (CrCl 34 to 43 mL/minute) renal impairment, the median Cmax and AUC values are increased by 1.2- and 1.9-fold, respectively. In patients with severe (CrCl 5 to 29 mL/minute) renal impairment or who are hemodialysis dependent, Cmax and AUC values are increased by 1.7- and 2.5-fold, respectively. Desloratadine and 3-hydroxydesloratadine are poorly removed by hemodialysis. Pseudoephedrine is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine as unchanged drug; the remainder is apparently metabolized in the liver. Therefore, pseudoephedrine may accumulate in patients with renal impairment.
    Name
    Pediatrics
    Description
    Data in pediatric patients under the age of 12 years are not available.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    The number of patients >= 65 years treated with desloratadine; pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets (Clarinex-D) was too small to make any clinical judgment regarding the efficacy or safety in this age group. In single entity desloratadine studies, elderly patients (> 65 years old) have had mean AUC and Cmax values reported which were 20% greater than that observed for patients < 65 years old. The mean plasma elimination half-life is prolonged by approximately 30%. Dosage adjustment do not appear to be warranted in the elderly population based on age alone; however, renal and/or liver function should be considered.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Female subjects treated for 14 days desloratadine; pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets had 10% and 3% higher desloratadine Cmax and AUC values, respectively, compared with male subjects. The 3-hydroxydesloratadine Cmax and AUC values were also increased by 45% and 48%, respectively, in females compared with males. However, these apparent differences are not considered to be clinically relevant.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Following 14 days of treatment with desloratadine; pseudoephedrine extended-release tablets, the Cmax and AUC values for desloratadine were 18% and 32% higher, respectively, in Black patients compared with Caucasians. For 3-hydroxydesloratadine there was a corresponding 10% reduction in Cmax and AUC values in Black patients compared to Caucasians. These differences are not considered to be clinically relevant.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    Slow metabolizers 
•Desloratadine: Desloratadine; pseudoephedrine contains desloratadine. Slow metabolizers of desloratadine have been identified. In this patient population (which is estimated at 4%), half-lives are much longer (up to 60 hours), and median AUC values are approximately 6-fold higher. However, major differences in safety have not been observed between slow and normal metabolizers; however, an increased risk of exposure-related adverse events in patients who are poor metabolizers cannot be ruled out. The major elimination pathway for slow metabolizers is via excretion of unchanged drug in the urine and feces.
  Text
  The extended-release combination tablet containing desloratadine and pseudoephedrine is given orally.
Desloratadine: Steady state occurs in roughly 10 days and 12 days for Clarinex-D 12 Hour and Clarinex-D 24 Hour, respectively. Desloratadine and its metabolite are roughly 80% to 90% protein bound. Desloratadine has not been shown to cross the blood brain barrier. Desloratadine is extensively metabolized and only minimal amounts of the orally administered dose are recovered in the urine (less than 2%) and feces (less than 7%). The major metabolic pathway of desloratadine is hydroxylation to form 3-OH-desloratadine that is glucuronidated and the glucuronide conjugate is excreted in the urine and bile. Data from clinical trials with desloratadine indicate that a subset of the general population has a decreased ability to form 3-hydroxydesloratadine, and are poor metabolizers of desloratadine. The elimination plasma half-life of desloratadine from the combination product is approximately 20 to 30 hours.
Pseudoephedrine: Steady state occurs in roughly 10 days and 12 days for Clarinex-D 12 Hour and Clarinex-D 24 Hour, respectively. Maximum steady-state blood concentrations are approximately 500 ng/mL (therapeutic concentrations of pseudoephedrine are reported to be between 0.21 and 0.77 mg/L), with a half-life of roughly 6 hours. Plasma protein binding has not been demonstrated. Pseudoephedrine is presumed to cross the placenta, blood brain barrier, and may be distributed into breast milk. Pseudoephedrine is incompletely metabolized (less than 1%) in the liver to norpseudoephedrine, the primary active metabolite of the parent. Elimination is primarily renal, with 55% to 96% of a dose being eliminated unchanged. Pseudoephedrine elimination is pH-dependent. At a urine pH of 5, the plasma half-life is roughly 3 to 6 hours; at a pH of 8 the half-life is increased to 9 to 16 hours.
 
Affected Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: None
Clinically relevant drug interactions related to inhibition of CYP450 system enzymes or drug transporters have not been noted with pseudoephedrine. Clinically relevant drug interactions related to inhibition of CYP450 system enzymes, such as CYP3A4, or drug transporters (such as P-glycoprotein) with desloratadine have not been noted in drug-drug interaction studies. Desloratadine is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate. Increased plasma concentrations (Cmax and AUC) of desloratadine and 3-hydroxydesloratadine were observed with some potent CYP3A4 inhibitors in studies. However, there were no clinically relevant changes in the safety profile of desloratadine, as assessed by electrocardiographic parameters (including the corrected QT interval), clinical laboratory tests, vital signs and adverse events.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Extended-release tablets
Administer with a glass of water; may give without regard to meals.
Do not cut, crush, divide, or chew.
If a patient has difficulty swallowing the extended-release tablets, alternative therapy should be considered.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Desloratadine 5 mg/day PO and pseudoephedrine 240 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Desloratadine 5 mg/day PO and pseudoephedrine 240 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Desloratadine 5 mg/day PO and pseudoephedrine 240 mg/day PO.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    12 years: Desloratadine 5 mg/day PO and pseudoephedrine 240 mg/day PO.
Less than 12 years: Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Avoid use in patients with hepatic impairment.
  Renal Impairment
  Avoid use in patients with renal impairment.
