=== Axitinib — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 3751)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Axitinib is an oral agent that works by inhibiting receptor tyrosine kinases, including vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR)-1, VEGFR-2, and VEGFR-3.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 20 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): pulmonary embolism, retinal thrombosis, stroke, thrombosis, bleeding, epistaxis, gi bleeding, hematuria, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, colitis, enterocolitis, hemorrhoids, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, hypercalcemia, hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, dysgeusia, weight loss

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Carefully consider the use of axitinib in patients with a history of thrombophilia or a recent history of thromboembolism, myocardial infarction, or ischemic stroke; treatment may increase the risk of arterial and venous thromboembolic events (VTE). Clinical trials of axitinib excluded patients... Emetic risk: Minimal/Low Hazardous drug: NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2

AXITINIB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

INLYTA

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of renal cell cancer

For the first-line treatment of advanced or metastatic renal cell cancer (RCC)†
Oral dosage
Adults


Initially, give 5 mg PO twice daily (at approximately 12 hour intervals). Dose increase or reduction is based on individual safety and tolerability. The axitinib dosage may be increased to 7 mg twice daily and then to 10 mg twice daily in normotensive patients (BP less than or equal to 150/90) who tolerate the lower dosage for at least 2 consecutive weeks with no greater than grade 2 adverse reactions. In clinical trials, dose reductions to 3 mg twice were allowed, and then to 2 mg twice daily if necessary. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Axitinib significantly improved the objective response rate in patients with previously untreated, metastatic clear cell RCC compared with sorafenib (32% vs. 15%) in a multicenter, randomized, open-label phase 3 clinical trial. An improvement in median progression-free survival (PFS) was not statistically significant in the intent-to-treat population (10.1 months vs. 6.5 months); however, the improvement was significant in a subgroup analysis of patients with ECOG score of 0 (13.7 months vs. 6.6 months).


For the treatment of advanced renal cell cancer after failure of 1 prior systemic therapy
Oral dosage
Adults


Initially, give 5 mg PO twice daily (at approximately 12 hour intervals). Dose increase or reduction is based on individual safety and tolerability. The axitinib dosage may be increased to 7 mg twice daily and then to 10 mg twice daily in normotensive patients (not receiving antihypertensive medications) who tolerate the lower dosage for at least 2 consecutive weeks with no greater than grade 2 adverse reactions. Reduce axitinib to 3 mg twice daily if a dose reduction is necessary; if further reduction is necessary, reduce axitinib to 2 mg twice daily. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Progression-free survival (primary endpoint) was significantly improved with axitinib 5 mg twice daily (increased up to 10 mg twice daily if no hypertension or greater than grade 2 adverse events) compared with sorafenib 400 mg twice daily (6.7 months vs. 4.7 months) in patients with progressive renal cell cancer in a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 study (n = 723).


For the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell cancer, in combination with pembrolizumab
Oral dosage
Adults


Initially, give axitinib 5 mg PO twice daily in combination with pembrolizumab (200 mg IV on day 1 every 3 weeks OR 400 mg IV on day 1 every 6 weeks). The axitinib dosage may be increased to 7 mg twice daily and then to 10 mg twice daily at intervals of 6 weeks or longer in normotensive patients (BP less than or equal to 150/90) who tolerate the lower dosage for at least 2 consecutive weeks with no greater than grade 2 adverse reactions. Continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, or for pembrolizumab, up to 24 months in patients without progression. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Pembrolizumab therapy may need to be temporarily withheld or permanently discontinued in patients who develop immune-related reactions; permanently discontinue therapy for severe or life-threatening infusion-related reactions. Combination therapy with pembrolizumab and axitinib significantly improved median overall survival (45.7 months vs. 40.1 months) and median progression-free survival (15.7 months vs. 11.1 months) compared with sunitinib in patients with advanced renal cell cancer in the final analysis of an open-label, phase 3 clinical trial (KEYNOTE-426). The objective response rate was 60.4% (complete response [CR], 10%) versus 39.6% (CR, 3.5%), respectively; the median duration of response was 23.6 months in patients receiving combination therapy compared with 15.3 months for patients treated with sunitinib.


For the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell cancer, in combination with avelumab
Oral dosage
Adults


5 mg PO twice daily initially, in combination with avelumab (800 mg IV over 1 hour every 2 weeks), until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The axitinib dosage may be increased to 7 mg twice daily and then to 10 mg twice daily in normotensive patients (not receiving antihypertensive medications) who tolerate the lower dosage for at least 2 consecutive weeks with no greater than grade 2 adverse reactions. All patients should receive premedication with an antihistamine and acetaminophen 30 to 60 minutes prior to the first 4 avelumab infusions; premedication may be administered prior to subsequent doses based upon clinical judgment and presence/severity of prior infusion reactions. Avelumab therapy may need to be temporarily withheld or permanently discontinued in patients who develop immune-related reactions. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Permanently discontinue therapy for severe or life-threatening infusion-related reactions. In the first interim analysis of an open-label phase 3 clinical trial (JAVELIN Renal 101), first-line combination therapy with avelumab and axitinib significantly improved PFS in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma and PD-L1 expression of 1% or more compared with sunitinib monotherapy; the confirmed objective response rate almost doubled with combination therapy. Overall survival was not reached in either group and continues to be monitored.


For the first-line treatment of advanced RCC, in combination with pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa†
Oral dosage
Adults


Initially, 5 mg PO twice daily in combination with pembrolizumab; betahyauronidase alfa (pembrolizumab 395 mg with 4,800 units berahyaluronidase alfa subcutaneously every 3 weeks OR pembrolizumab 790 mg with 9,600 units of berahyaluronidase alfa subcutaneously every 6 weeks until disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity for up to 24 months). The axitinib dosage may be increased to 7 mg twice daily and then to 10 mg twice daily at intervals of 6 weeks or longer in normotensive patients (BP less than or equal to 150/90) who tolerate the lower dosage for at least 2 consecutive weeks with no greater than grade 2 adverse reactions. Continue axitinib until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Combination therapy with pembrolizumab and axitinib significantly improved median overall survival (45.7 months vs. 40.1 months) and median progression-free survival (15.1 months vs. 11 months) compared with sunitinib in patients with advanced renal cell cancer in the final analysis of an open-label, phase 3 clinical trial (KEYNOTE-426). The objective response rate was 59% (complete response [CR], 6%) versus 36% (CR, 2%), respectively; the median duration of response was 23.6 months in patients receiving combination therapy compared with 15.3 months for patients treated with sunitinib.  


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, thromboembolism, thrombophilia


Carefully consider the use of axitinib in patients with a history of thrombophilia or a recent history of thromboembolism, myocardial infarction, or ischemic stroke; treatment may increase the risk of arterial and venous thromboembolic events (VTE). Clinical trials of axitinib excluded patients with arterial thromboembolic events in the previous 12 months or venous thromboembolic events in the previous 6 months; discontinue axitinib in patients who develop arterial or venous thromboembolism. If avelumab and axitinib are used together, optimize the management of cardiovascular risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or hyperlipidemia; consider baseline and periodic evaluations of left ventricular ejection fraction; and monitor for signs and symptoms of cardiovascular events. Discontinue both avelumab and axitinib for grade 3 or 4 cardiovascular events. The combination of avelumab with axitinib can cause severe and fatal cardiovascular events including myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

bleeding disorder, brain metastases, GI bleeding


Do not use axitinib in patients with evidence of untreated brain metastases or recent active GI bleeding; use axitinib with caution in patients with a history of a bleeding disorder. Serious hemorrhagic events have occurred in patients treated with axitinib; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if bleeding occurs, depending on the severity and persistence of bleeding.


major surgery, planned procedure


Do not administer axitinib for at least 2 days prior to a planned procedure or elective surgery. After major surgery, wait at least 2 weeks and until adequate wound healing prior to restarting axitinib therapy. Impaired wound healing can occur in patients who receive drugs that inhibit the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathway such as axitinib. The safety of resuming treatment after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established.


Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Reduce the dose of axitinib in patients with moderate hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class B) at baseline; axitinib has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic disease (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. Increased liver function tests have been reported during axitinib treatment; monitor liver function tests prior to starting axitinib and periodically during therapy. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary. Consider more frequent monitoring when axitinib is administered in combination with avelumab or pembrolizumab as the incidence of hepatotoxicity is higher; administration of corticosteroids may be necessary for severe hepatotoxicity in addition to interruption of therapy, dose reduction, and/or discontinuation of therapy.


hypertension


Do not use axitinib in patients with uncontrolled hypertension as treatment may increase blood pressure; ensure that blood pressure is well-controlled prior to initiating therapy. Monitor blood pressure and treat as needed with standard antihypertensive therapy. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hypertension occurs.


pregnancy


Based on animal studies and its mechanism of action, axitinib has the potential to cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy. There are no available human data. In developmental toxicity studies, axitinib was teratogenic, embryotoxic, and fetotoxic in mice at exposures below those expected in humans at the recommended starting dose. It is important to counsel people of reproductive potential regarding the potential fetal risks associated with this medication. Oral axitinib given to female mice before and during early pregnancy increased post-implantation loss at doses about 10 times the human exposure. During organogenesis, doses of 0.15 to 1.5 mg/kg twice daily caused embryo-fetal toxicities, including cleft palate at 1.5 mg/kg and skeletal variations at doses as low as 0.5 mg/kg, corresponding to lower human exposure levels.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with axitinib. Axitinib can cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking axitinib and for 1 week after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose. Based on animal studies, axitinib may impair female and male fertility.


breast-feeding


Avoid the use of axitinib during breast-feeding. Axitinib has the potential to cause serious side effects in the breast-fed child. Advise patients to discontinue breast-feeding during treatment and for 2 weeks after the final dose. It is not known whether axitinib is present in human milk.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Based on animal studies and its mechanism of action, axitinib has the potential to cause fetal harm if administered during pregnancy. There are no available human data. In developmental toxicity studies, axitinib was teratogenic, embryotoxic, and fetotoxic in mice at exposures below those expected in humans at the recommended starting dose. It is important to counsel people of reproductive potential regarding the potential fetal risks associated with this medication. Oral axitinib given to female mice before and during early pregnancy increased post-implantation loss at doses about 10 times the human exposure. During organogenesis, doses of 0.15 to 1.5 mg/kg twice daily caused embryo-fetal toxicities, including cleft palate at 1.5 mg/kg and skeletal variations at doses as low as 0.5 mg/kg, corresponding to lower human exposure levels.


Interactions

Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with adagrasib due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after adagrasib is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with amobarbital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and amobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after clarithromycin is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Artesunate: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in artesunate-related side effects if coadministered with axitinib. Coadministration may increase the exposure of the active metabolite of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin (DHA). DHA is a UGT substrate, and axitinib is a strong UGT inhibitor.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with butalbital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with atazanavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after atazanavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with atazanavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after atazanavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers. (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after cobicistat is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with bexarotene if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with bosentan if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with butalbital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with butalbital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with butalbital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with butalbital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with carbamazepine due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with cenobamate if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ceritinib due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ceritinib is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with chloramphenical due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after chloramphenical is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and chloramphenical is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after clarithromycin is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after cobicistat is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Cocaine: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of axitinib with cocaine is necessary, due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. Axitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cocaine is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor, ketoconazole, significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers. The manufacturer of axitinib recommends a dose reduction in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, but recommendations are not available for moderate or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with dabrafenib if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with darunavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after darunavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after cobicistat is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers. (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with darunavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after darunavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after cobicistat is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers. (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with darunavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after darunavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with efavirenz if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with efavirenz if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with efavirenz if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with elagolix if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with elagolix if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and elagolix is a weak to moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after cobicistat is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after cobicistat is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with encorafenib due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ensitrelvir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with enzalutamide due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with eslicarbazepine if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with etravirine if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with fexinidazole if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with fosamprenavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after fosamprenavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and fosamprenavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during axitinib treatment due to the risk for increased axitinib exposure and adverse reactions. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with idelalisib due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after idelalisib is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid axitinib during and for 2 weeks after discontinuation of itraconazole treatment. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately 50%; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after itraconazole is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ketoconazole is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after clarithromycin is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Letermovir: (Moderate) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with letermovir if the patient is also taking cyclosporine due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after letermovir or cyclosporine is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate. Letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor which requires no dose adjustment with axitinib; however, the combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ketoconazole is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with ketoconazole significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with lonafarnib due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after lonafarnib is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ritonavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ritonavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with lorlatinib if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with methohexital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and methohexital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with mifepristone due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after mifepristone is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with mitotane due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Modafinil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with modafinil if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with nafcillin if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with nefazodone due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after nefazodone is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with nelfinavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after nelfinavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ritonavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ritonavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with rifabutin due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and rifabutin is a CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with pacritinib if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with pentobarbital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and pentobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with pexidartinib if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with phenobarbital due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with phenobarbital due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with phenytoin due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with posaconazole due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after posaconazole is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with primidone due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with relacorilant due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after relacorilant is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with repotrectinib if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ribociclib due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ribociclib is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ribociclib due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ribociclib is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with rifabutin due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and rifabutin is a CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with rifampin due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with rifapentine due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with ritonavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after ritonavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with saquinavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after saquinavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with secobarbital if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and secobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with sotorasib if possible due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with St. Johns Wort due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and St. Johns Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with tipranavir due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after tipranavir is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with tucatinib due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after tucatinib is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after clarithromycin is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with voriconazole due to the risk of increased axitinib-related adverse reactions. If coadministration is unavoidable, decrease the dose of axitinib by approximately half; subsequent doses can be increased or decreased based on individual safety and tolerability. Resume the original dose of axitinib approximately 3 to 5 half-lives after voriconazole is discontinued. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor significantly increased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.


Adverse Reaction
hypertension, hypertensive crisis


Hypertension was reported in 40% of patients with renal cell cancer (grade 3 or 4, 16%) who received axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial; 2 patients (less than 1%) experienced hypertensive crisis. Increased blood pressure was observed as early as 4 days after initiating axitinib, with a median onset time for hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than 150 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure greater than 100 mmHg) occurring within 1 month. The incidence of hypertension (including hypertensive crisis as well as labile hypertension) was slightly increased when axitinib was administered in combination with avelumab or pembrolizumab to patients with renal cell cancer in 2 other clinical trials (48% to 50%; grade 3 or 4, 24% to 26%). Monitor patients for hypertension during axitinib therapy; hypertension may be treated using standard antihypertensive medications.


heart failure, myocardial infarction


Heart failure occurred in 2% of patients with renal cell carcinoma treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 1%); fatal cardiac failure was reported in 2 patients treated with axitinib (1%). Axitinib administered in combination with avelumab can cause severe and fatal cardiovascular events. Major adverse cardiovascular events occurred in 7% of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma treated with axitinib plus avelumab in a randomized clinical trial, including death due to cardiac events (1.4%), grade 3 or 4 myocardial infarction (2.8%), and grade 3 or 4 congestive heart failure (1.8%). The median time to onset of major cardiovascular events was 4.2 months. Discontinue avelumab and axitinib for grade 3 or 4 cardiovascular events.


pulmonary embolism, retinal thrombosis, stroke, thrombosis


Arterial thromboembolic events (ATE) and venous thromboembolic events (VTE), some fatal, have been reported with axitinib use in patients with renal cell cancer. In clinical trials with axitinib monotherapy, 2% of patients experienced an ATE (e.g., transient ischemic attack, cerebrovascular accident, myocardial infarction, and retinal artery occlusion), with 2 deaths due to stroke. In one trial, 1% of patients treated with axitinib experienced a transient ischemic attack and 1% experienced retinal-vein occlusion/retinal thrombosis; fatal cerebrovascular accident was reported in one patient (less than 1%) receiving axitinib monotherapy. Venous thromboembolic events (e.g., pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, retinal vein occlusion and retinal vein thrombosis), were reported in 3% of patients who received axitinib monotherapy in clinical trials, including 3% with VTE, 2% with pulmonary embolism, and 1% with deep vein thrombosis; 2 deaths occurred due to pulmonary embolism. Venous thromboembolic disease occurred in 1.6% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib in combination with avelumab.


bleeding, epistaxis, GI bleeding, hematuria, hemoptysis, intracranial bleeding, melena


Bleeding occurred in 16% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 1%); grade 3 or 4 events included cerebral hemorrhage (intracranial bleeding), hematuria, hemoptysis, lower GI bleeding, and melena. Additionally, epistaxis (6%), hematuria (3%), rectal hemorrhage (2%), and hemoptysis (2%) were reported in patients who received axitinib monotherapy; fatal GI bleeding occurred in less than 1% of patients treated with axitinib.


abdominal pain, colitis, constipation, diarrhea, enterocolitis, hemorrhoids


Diarrhea occurred in 55% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 11%). Additionally, constipation was reported in 20% (grade 3 or 4, 1%), abdominal pain in 14% (grade 3 or 4, 2%), upper abdominal pain in 8%, and hemorrhoids in 4% of these patients. The incidence of these adverse reactions was not meaningfully different when axitinib was administered in combination with avelumab or pembrolizumab. Diarrhea (including autoimmune colitis) occurred in 62% (grade 3 or 4, 8%) and abdominal pain in 22% (grade 3 or 4, 1.4%) of patients with advanced renal cell cancer who received axitinib plus avelumab in a randomized clinical trial. Diarrhea including colitis as well as hemorrhagic enterocolitis (56%; grade 3 or 4, 11%) and constipation (21%) were reported with similar frequencies in another trial of patients with advanced renal cell cancer who received axitinib plus pembrolizumab.


hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism


Hypothyroidism occurred in 19% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy (grade 3 or 4, less than 1%), in 25% of patients treated with axitinib in combination with avelumab (grade 3 or 4, 0.2%), and in 35% of patients who received axitinib plus pembrolizumab (grade 3 or 4, 0.2%) in separate clinical trials. Additionally, 32% of patients who had a thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level less than 5 microunits/mL prior to treatment experienced a TSH elevation to 10 microunits/mL or more with axitinib monotherapy. Monitor thyroid function tests prior to and periodically during axitinib therapy; treat thyroid disease with standard thyroid medications if clinically indicated. Hyperthyroidism occurred in 1% of patients treated with axitinib monotherapy.


elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia


Elevated hepatic enzymes occurred in 20% to 30% of patients with renal cell carcinoma treated with axitinib in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 1% or less); specific hepatic laboratory abnormalities included increased alkaline phosphatase (30%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), increased ALT (22%; grade 3 or 4, less than 1%), and increased AST (20%; grade 3 or 4, less than 1%). Monitor liver function tests prior to beginning treatment and periodically during therapy. Axitinib administered with pembrolizumab or avelumab can cause hepatotoxicity, including autoimmune hepatitis and fulminant hepatitis, more often than what would be expected with either drug alone (24% to 39%; grade 3 or 4, 9% to 20%). Axitinib in combination with avelumab caused increased ALT in 50% (grade 3 or 4, 9%) and increased AST in 47% (grade 3 or 4, 7%) of patients; resolution occurred in 92% of these patients. Hyperbilirubinemia occurred in 21% of patients who received axitinib plus avelumab (grade 3 or 4, 1.4%). Increased ALT (60%; grade 3 or 4, 20%), increased AST (57%; grade 3 or 4, 13%), increased alkaline phosphatase (26%; grade 3 or 4, 1.7%), and hyperbilirubinemia (22%; grade 3 or 4, 2.1%) were also reported in patients treated with axitinib plus pembrolizumab. Resolution of increased AST occurred in 94% of patients with an ALT of 3 or more times ULN; a recurrence occurred in 45% of patients who were rechallenged.


dizziness, headache


Headache occurred in 14% to 21% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy or in combination with avelumab in 2 randomized clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.2% to 1%). Dizziness was also reported in 9% of patients who received monotherapy.


proteinuria


Proteinuria was reported in 11% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer who received axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3, 3%).


acneiform rash, bullous rash, erythema, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), pruritus, rash, xerosis


Palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) was reported in 27% to 33% (grade 3 or 4, 5% to 6%) of patients with renal cell cancer treated with axitinib, either as monotherapy or in combination with avelumab or pembrolizumab, in randomized clinical trials. Rash (including maculopapular rash, erythematous rash, pustular rash, acneiform rash, exfoliative dermatitis, bullous rash, seborrheic dermatitis, and skin discoloration) occurred in 13% (grade 3 or 4, less than 1%) of patients receiving axitinib monotherapy and in 25% (grade 3 or 4, 0.9% to 1.4%) of those receiving axitinib plus either avelumab or pembrolizumab. Additionally, 10% of patients receiving axitinib reported xerosis, 7% reported pruritus, and 2% reported erythema.


leukopenia, lymphopenia


Lymphopenia occurred in 33% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib, either as monotherapy or in combination with pembrolizumab in separate clinical trials; the incidence of grade 3 or 4 lymphopenia was higher in those who received axitinib plus pembrolizumab (11% vs. 3%). Mild leukopenia was also reported in 11% of renal cell cancer patients treated with axitinib monotherapy.


arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia


Musculoskeletal adverse effects including arthralgia (15%; grade 3 or 4, 2%), pain in extremities (13%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), and myalgia (7%) were reported in patients with advanced renal cell cancer who received axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial. Musculoskeletal pain (including musculoskeletal chest pain, myalgia, back pain, bone pain, neck pain, and extremity pain) was reported in 40% of renal cell cancer patients treated with axitinib in combination with avelumab (grade 3 or 4, 3.2%); arthralgia occurred in less than 20% of these patients.


cough, dyspnea


Cough occurred in 15% to 23% of patients with renal cell cancer who received axitinib, either as monotherapy or in combination with avelumab or pembrolizumab, in randomized clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.2% to 1%). Dyspnea was also reported in 15% to 23% of patients who received avelumab monotherapy or in combination with avelumab (grade 3 or 4, 3%).


hypercalcemia, hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia


Hyponatremia (13%; grade 3 or 4, 4%) and hyperkalemia (15%; grade 3 or 4, 3%) occurred in patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial. The incidence of both hyponatremia (35%; grade 3 or 4, 8%) and hyperkalemia (34%; grade 3 or 4, 6%) was higher when axitinib was administered to renal cell cancer patients in combination with pembrolizumab; decreases from baseline in sodium (38%; grade 3 or 4, 9%) and increases in potassium (35%; grade 3 or 4, 3%) were also reported in patients who received axitinib plus avelumab. Additional electrolyte abnormalities reported both with axitinib monotherapy and in combination with pembrolizumab include hypocalcemia (39% vs. 22%; grade 3 or 4, 1% vs. 0.2%), hypophosphatemia (13% vs. 26%; grade 3 or 4, 2% vs. 6%), and hypercalcemia (6% vs. 27%; grade 3 or 4, 0% vs. 0.7%). Decreased bicarbonate (44%; grade 3 or 4, less than 1%) and hypernatremia (17%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) also occurred in patients receiving axitinib monotherapy.


asthenia, fatigue


Fatigue was reported in 39% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 11%); asthenia was separately reported in 21% of patients (grade 3 or 4, 5%). Fatigue (including asthenia) was slightly more common in patients with advanced renal cell cancer who received axitinib in combination with either avelumab or pembrolizumab in 2 other clinical trials (52% to 53%; grade 3 or 4, 5% to 6%).


tinnitus


Tinnitus was reported in 3% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer who received axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial.]


hyperamylasemia


Hyperamylasemia occurred in 25% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 2%); increased lipase occurred in 2% to 27% of axitinib-treated patients in this trial (grade 3 or 4, 5%). Increased lipase occurred more often in another randomized trial of patients with advanced renal cell cancer who received axitinib in combination with avelumab (37%; grade 3 or 4, 14%).


hypoalbuminemia


Hypoalbuminemia was reported in 15% (grade 3 or 4, less than 1%) of patients with advanced renal cell cancer who received axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial. Hypoalbuminemia occurred more often in patients with renal cell cancer who received axitinib in combination with pembrolizumab (32%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%).


gastrointestinal fistula, GI perforation


In clinical trials with axitinib, 1% of patients had a GI perforation and 1% of developed a gastrointestinal fistula; there was 1 report of death resulting from a GI perforation. In one controlled clinical trial with axitinib for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma, a GI perforation occurred in one patient (less than 1%). Patients should be periodically monitored for symptoms of GI perforation or fistula.


anorexia, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, weight loss


Decreased appetite or anorexia was reported in 26% to 34% of patients with renal cell cancer treated with axitinib, either as monotherapy or in combination with avelumab or pembrolizumab, in clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 2.1% to 5%). Weight loss occurred in 25% of these patients who received axitinib monotherapy (grade 3 or 4, 2%) and in less than 20% of those treated with axitinib plus avelumab. Dysgeusia (11%) and dyspepsia (10%) were also reported in patients treated with axitinib monotherapy.


nausea, vomiting


Nausea was reported in 28% to 34% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib, either as monotherapy or in combination with avelumab or pembrolizumab (grade 3 or 4, 0.9% to 3%). Vomiting occurred in 24% of patients who received axitinib monotherapy (grade 3 or 4, 3%).


stomatitis


Mucosal inflammation (15%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), stomatitis (15%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), and glossodynia (3%) were reported in patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial. Mucositis (including mucosal inflammation and stomatitis) was more common (27% to 34%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6% to 2.8%) in patients who received axitinib in combination with either avelumab or pembrolizumab in 2 other clinical trials.


dehydration


Dehydration occurred in 6% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial. Serious cases of dehydration were also reported in 1% of patients who received axitinib in combination with pembrolizumab in another clinical trial.


dysphonia


Dysphonia occurred in 25% to 31% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib, either as monotherapy or in combination with avelumab or pembrolizumab, in randomized clinical trials (grade 3 or 4, 0.5% or less).


alopecia


Alopecia occurred in 4% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial.


leukoencephalopathy


Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) occurred in 1 patient with advanced renal cell cancer (less than 1%) who received axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial (n = 355); there have been 2 additional cases of RPLS in patients who received axitinib on other clinical trials. Symptoms of RPLS can include headache, seizure, lethargy, confusion, blindness, and other visual or neurologic changes; hypertension may also be present. Discontinue axitinib if RPLS develops; it is not known whether axitinib may be safely reinitiated in patients who experienced RPLS.


hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia


Hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia have occurred in patients receiving axitinib in combination with either avelumab or pembrolizumab. In one clinical trial, 71% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib in combination with avelumab had an increase in triglycerides compared to baseline (grade 3 or 4, 13%). In another trial, 57% of those who received axitinib plus pembrolizumab had an increase in cholesterol from baseline (grade 3 or 4, 1.9%).


hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia


Hyperglycemia occurred in 28% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy (grade 3 or 4, 2%) and in 62% of renal cell cancer patients who received axitinib in combination with pembrolizumab (grade 3 or 4, 9%) in separate clinical trials. Hypoglycemia was also reported in 11% of patients treated with axitinib monotherapy (grade 3 or 4, 1%).


renal failure (unspecified)


Generally mild increases in creatinine occurred in 43% to 62% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib, either as monotherapy or in combination with avelumab or pembrolizumab, in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 4.3% or less). Acute kidney injury or renal failure (unspecified) occurred in 1.4% to 2.3% of patients with advanced renal cell who received treatment with axitinib plus avelumab or pembrolizumab.


prolonged bleeding time


Prolonged bleeding time (aPTT) occurred in 22% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib in combination with pembrolizumab (n = 429) in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 1.2%). Two patients with a grade 3 elevation in aPTT were also reported as having hepatotoxicity.


aortic dissection


Arterial (including aortic) aneurysms, dissections (aortic dissection), and rupture have occurred in postmarketing experience with axitinib.


anemia


Anemia occurred in 4% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial; a decrease in hemoglobin from baseline occurred in 35% of these patients (grade 3 or 4, less than 1%). Anemia occurred more often in renal cell cancer patients who received axitinib in combination with pembrolizumab in another clinical trial (29%; grade 3 or 4, 2.1%). A decrease in hemoglobin from baseline occurred in 21% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib plus avelumab.


polycythemia


Polycythemia occurred in 1% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial; an increase in hemoglobin from baseline also occurred in 9% of patients.


thrombocytopenia


Thrombocytopenia occurred in 15% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib monotherapy in a randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, less than 1%). The incidence was slightly higher in renal cell cancer patients who received axitinib in combination with pembrolizumab in another clinical trial (27%; grade 3 or 4, 1.4%). A decreased platelet count from baseline occurred in 27% of patients with renal cell cancer treated with axitinib plus avelumab (grade 3 or 4, 0.7%).


infection


Serious pneumonia (infection) occurred in 1.2% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib in combination with avelumab in a randomized clinical trial.


chills


Chills occurred in less than 20% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib in combination with avelumab in a randomized clinical trial.


pneumonitis


Serious cases of pneumonitis occurred in 1% of patients with advanced renal cell cancer treated with axitinib in combination with pembrolizumab in a randomized clinical trial.


infertility


Based on animal studies, axitinib may cause male and female infertility.


Description

Axitinib is an oral agent that works by inhibiting receptor tyrosine kinases, including vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR)-1, VEGFR-2, and VEGFR-3. It is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell cancer (RCC) after the failure of one prior systemic therapy. Progression-free survival (PFS) was significantly improved with axitinib compared with sorafenib in a multicenter, randomized, phase 3 study in patients with progressive RCC after one first-line therapy including a sunitinib-, temsirolimus-, or cytokine-based regimen or bevacizumab plus interferon alfa. It is also indicated for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell cancer in combination with either avelumab after demonstrating an improvement in PFS over sunitinib monotherapy, and in combination with pembrolizumab treatment showed a significant improvement in both overall survival and PFS compared with sunitinib monotherapy. Patients should not receive axitinib for at least 2 days before elective surgery due to wound healing complications that may be associated with treatment; do not administer axitinib for at least 2 weeks after major surgery and until adequate wound healing has occurred.

Mechanism Of Action

Axitinib is an oral kinase inhibitor. At therapeutic concentrations, axitinib inhibits receptor tyrosine kinases including vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR)-1, VEGFR-2, and VEGFR-3. Axitinib inhibited tumor growth and phosphorylation of VEGFR-2 in tumor xenograft mouse models and VEGF-mediated endothelial cell proliferation and survival in vitro and in mouse models. Inactivation of the von-Hippel Lindau (VHL) gene, reported in up to 91% of patients with noninherited clear-cell renal cell cancer (RCC), results in hypoxia inducible factors (HIF) accumulation. Elevated HIF levels trigger increased gene transcription of VEGF and platelet-derived growth factor that control cell proliferation, glucose uptake, and angiogenesis.

Pharmacokinetics

Axitinib is administered orally. It is greater than 99% protein bound, mostly to albumin with moderate binding to alpha-1 acid glycoprotein. Carboxylic acid, sulfoxide, and N-glucuronide metabolites have been identified. N-glucuronide and sulfoxide metabolites are at least 400 times less potent against VEGFR-2 in vitro compared with axitinib. Following a radioactive 5-mg oral dose, 41% and 23% of the radioactivity was recovered in the feces and urine, respectively. Unchanged axitinib accounted for 12% of dose recovered in the feces. Unchanged axitinib was not found in urine; however, carboxylic acid and sulfoxide metabolites were responsible for most of the radioactivity in urine. The N-glucuronide metabolite accounted for 50% of the radioactivity in plasma with unchanged axitinib and the sulfoxide metabolite each accounting for 20% of the radioactivity. The plasma half-life ranges from 2.5 to 6.1 hours and steady state is estimated to occur within 2 to 3 days.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporter: CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2C19, UGT1A1
Axitinib is metabolized in the liver primarily via CYP3A4/5 and to a lesser extent, by CYP1A2, CYP2C19, and UGT1A1. In vitro studies suggest that axitinib has the potential to inhibit CYP1A2 and CYP2C8, but in vivo studies did not demonstrate this for CYP2C8. It is also an inhibitor of P-gp in vitro; however, it is not expected to inhibit P-gp at therapeutic plasma concentrations. Axitinib does not inhibit CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4/5 or UGT1A1 in vitro. It also does not induce CYP1A1, CYP1A2, or CYP3A4/5 in vitro.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

A 2-compartment disposition model with first order absorption and lag time was determined from pooled data in a population pharmacokinetic analysis in patients and healthy subjects who received axitinib in 17 trials. Following a single oral 5-mg axitinib dose, the mean absolute bioavailability was 58% and the median Tmax ranged from 2.5 to 4.1 hours. Linear kinetics are exhibited over a dosage range of 1 mg to 20 mg at steady state. Axitinib 5 mg twice daily dosing led to about 1.4 times the accumulation compared with a single 5-mg dose.
In 20 patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma who received axitinib 5 mg twice daily with food (fed state), the geometric mean Cmax was 27.8 ng/mL (coefficient of variation (CV%), 79%), AUC (0 to 24 hour) was 265 ng x hour/mL (CV%, 77%), total clearance was 38 L/hr (CV%, 80%), and apparent volume of distribution was 160 L (CV%, 105%). Compared with patients who received axitinib after fasting overnight, 10% lower AUC and 19% higher AUC values were observed following the administration of axitinib with a moderate fat meal and a high fat, high-calorie meal, respectively. Axitinib may be given with or without food. Although the solubility of axitinib is pH dependent, with higher pH resulting in lower solubility, coadministration with rabeprazole did not significantly alter the Cmax or AUC of axitinib; no dose adjustment is recommended for concomitant use with antacids, H2 antagonists, or proton pump inhibitors.

Hepatic Impairment

In a pharmacokinetic (PK) study that evaluated the effect of hepatic impairment on axitinib PK parameters, systemic exposure (AUC and Cmax) was similar in patients with baseline mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A) and higher in patients with baseline moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) compared with subjects with normal hepatic function. An axitinib dose reduction is necessary in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. Axitinib has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C).

Renal Impairment

In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, mild to severe renal impairment (CrCl, 15 to 89 mL/min) did not have a meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of axitinib. Data are only available for 1 patient with end-stage renal disease (ESRD); use caution in these patients.

Pediatrics

Exposure to axitinib in pediatric patients (age, 5 to 16 years) with recurrent or refractory solid tumors at the maximum tolerated dose was lower in 2 open-label studies (n = 17) and one randomized study (n = 7) than the observed exposures in adult patients who received the approved recommended starting dosage. Axitinib has not been studied in children younger than 5 years old or in infants or neonates.

Geriatric

Age had no clinically significant impact on the clearance of axitinib in population pharmacokinetic analyses.

Gender Differences

Gender had no clinically significant impact on the clearance of axitinib in population pharmacokinetic analyses.

Ethnic Differences

Race had no clinically significant impact on the clearance of axitinib in population pharmacokinetic analyses.

Obesity

Body weight and body surface area had no clinically significant impact on the clearance of axitinib in population pharmacokinetic analyses.

Other

Genotype Differences
UGT1A1 or CYP2C19 genotypes had no clinically significant impact on the clearance of axitinib in population pharmacokinetic analyses.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
NIOSH 2024 List: Table 2
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
Emetic Risk
Minimal/Low
Administer prn antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.


Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Administer axitinib orally with or without food.
Swallow tablet whole with a glass of water.
If the patient vomits or misses a dose, an additional dose should not be taken. The next prescribed dose should be taken at the usual time.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

20 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

20 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Infants

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Neonates

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

INLYTA 1mg Tablet

INLYTA 5mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment

Baseline Hepatic Impairment:
Mild impairment (Child-Pugh class A): No dose adjustment to the starting dose is required.
Moderate impairment (Child-Pugh class B): Reduce the starting dose by approximately one-half, and then adjust the dose upwards or downwards based on safety and tolerability.
Severe impairment (Child-Pugh class C): No studies have been performed; dosing recommendations are not available from the manufacturer.
 
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity:
In combination with avelumab or pembrolizumab
AST/ALT 3 to 9.9 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) with concurrent total bilirubin less than 2 times ULN: Hold both axitinib and avelumab or pembrolizumab. Consider corticosteroid therapy. When AST/ALT recover to grade 1 or less, consider a rechallenge with axitinib and avelumab or pembrolizumab. If rechallenging, consider reducing the dose of axitinib by 1 dose level; additionally consider a sequential rechallenge.
AST/ALT more than 3 times ULN with concurrent total bilirubin at least 2 times ULN; OR AST/ALT more than 10 times ULN: Permanently discontinue both axitinib and avelumab or pembrolizumab. Consider corticosteroid therapy.


Renal Impairment

Baseline Renal Impairment:
No dosage adjustment to the starting dose is necessary for patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment. Data are not available for patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). A baseline urinalysis to monitor for proteinuria is recommended before axitinib administration and periodically during treatment.
Treatment-Related Nephrotoxicity:
If moderate to severe proteinuria develops, reduce the dose of axitinib or temporarily withhold treatment.
If dose reduction from 5 mg twice daily is required due to adverse drug reactions, the recommended dose is 3 mg twice daily; reduce the dose to 2 mg twice daily if an additional dose reduction is necessary.


© 2026 Elsevier