=== Bismuth Subsalicylate/metroNIDAZOLE/Tetracycline (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 925)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline is a combination of a bismuth salt, nitroimidazole antibacterial, and tetracycline antibacterial indicated for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or history of) to eradicate H. pylori.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 2,100 mg/day bismuth subsalicylate; 1,000 mg/day metronidazole; 2,000 mg/day tetracycline PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): aseptic meningitis, asthenia, ataxia, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, encephalopathy, headache, insomnia, irritability, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, seizures, syncope, vertigo, weakness, elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, myocardial infarction, qt prolongation, st-t wave changes, eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This section discusses the contraindications and precautions for prescribing Helidac (combination therapy including bismuth subsalicylate, metronidazole, and tetracycline) for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection associated with duodenal ulcer disease. For more specific information...

Brand Names
  - Helidac

Dosage Forms
  - Helidac 262.4mg-250mg-500mg Therapy Kit

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Oral dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        525 mg bismuth subsalicylate; 250 mg metronidazole; 500 mg tetracycline PO 4 times daily in combination with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) for 14 days. The FDA-approved regimen includes the addition of an H2-antagonist rather than a PPI.
    Heading
    For Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) eradication as quadruple therapy

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  This section discusses the contraindications and precautions for prescribing Helidac (combination therapy including bismuth subsalicylate, metronidazole, and tetracycline) for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection associated with duodenal ulcer disease. For more specific information regarding precautions for the individual agents, refer to each separate drug monograph.
 
Helidac therapy is contraindicated in patients with a prior history of metronidazole or other nitroimidazole derivative hypersensitivity, tetracyclines hypersensitivity or salicylate hypersensitivity. Because systemic concentrations of salicylic acid are detectable during therapy with bismuth subsalicylate, patients with salicylate hypersensitivity should not be treated with bismuth subsalicylate. Repeated doses of bismuth subsalicylate (BSS) for durations in excess of recommendations should be avoided to avoid salicylate toxicity. Avoid concurrent treatment with BSS and other salicylates, including aspirin.
 
Helidac therapy includes two antibiotics: tetracycline and metronidazole. Antibiotic therapy may result in candidal overgrowth. A known or previously unrecognized candida fungal infection may present more prominent symptoms during antibiotic therapy and require treatment with an appropriate antifungal agent. Metronidazole should be used with caution in patients with dental disease. Metronidazole can cause xerostomia, which may contribute to the development of periodontal disease, caries, or oral candidiasis.
 
Prolonged use or large doses of bismuth subsalicylate can increase the hypoglycemic effect of agents used to treat diabetes. Patients with diabetes mellitus should be treated with caution and warned of possible changes in blood glucose.
 
Helidac therapy is contraindicated in patients with renal disease associated with renal impairment or renal failure. Helidac therapy is also contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with hepatic impairment. Elderly patients may have age-related decline in renal and/or hepatic function. Therefore, Helidac should be administered with caution in elderly patients; alternative therapy should be used in elderly patients with renal or hepatic impairment.
 
Chronic or high-dose bismuth subsalicylate therapy should be given with caution in patients with a history of or active GI disease including erosive gastritis, esophagitis, GI bleeding, peptic ulcer disease, or previous NSAID-induced GI bleeding. Such patients should be monitored closely, with special caution in tobacco smoking patients or in patients with excess alcohol intake. Ingestion of adequate amounts of fluid, particularly with the bedtime dose of tetracycline, is recommended to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration.
 
Metronidazole should be used with caution in patients with alcoholism or ethanol intoxication. Metronidazole may interfere with the metabolism of ethanol, resulting in disulfiram-like side effects (see Drug Interactions). In general, it is recommended to avoid the consumption of alcoholic beverages or medicines with metronidazole or for at least 3 days following the discontinuation of the drug. The manufacturer of Helidac therapy recommends avoiding alcoholic beverages for at least one day after completing metronidazole therapy.
 
Metronidazole is contraindicated in patients with a history of drug-induced hematological dyscrasias due to metronidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives. Metronidazole should be used with care in patients with evidence of or history of hematological disease. A mild leukopenia (neutropenia) has been observed during metronidazole administration; however, no persistent hematologic abnormalities attributable to metronidazole have been observed in clinical studies. Monitor the CBC with differential before and after therapy. Use with caution in patients with bone marrow suppression. In addition, since salicylates may cause or aggravate hemolysis in patients with pyruvate kinase deficiency or rare variants of G6PD deficiency, bismuth subsalicylate should be avoided in patients with these specific hematologic abnormalities.
 
The hypoprothrombinemic effects of oral anticoagulant therapy with warfarin or other coumarin-type agents can be potentiated if metronidazole is added (see Drug Interactions). Monitor INRs closely if metronidazole is added to warfarin therapy; an adjustment of the oral anticoagulant therapy dosage may be necessary. Due to an increased risk of salicylic acid absorption and bleeding, chronic or high-dose bismuth subsalicylate therapy should be avoided in patients with receiving warfarin anticoagulant therapy (see Drug Interactions), hypoprothrombinemia, vitamin K deficiency, coagulopathy (e.g., hemophilia), severe hepatic impairment, or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). However, the risk of bleeding with non-acetylated salicylates is less than that of aspirin due to the lack of platelet effects.
 
Patients with gout should receive bismuth subsalicylate with caution. The salicylate content of bismuth subsalicylate can interfere with uricosuric antigout agents, and can also affect serum uric acid concentrations.
 
Helidac should be administered with caution to patients with neurological disease. Metronidazole has been associated with seizures and peripheral neuropathy, with the prevalence and severity of the neuropathy being directly related to the cumulative dose and duration of therapy. The risk of neurotoxicity may be increased in patients with a history of neurological disease or a preexisting seizure disorder.
 
Crohn's disease patients are known to have an increased incidence of gastrointestinal and certain extraintestinal cancers. There have been some reports in the medical literature of breast and colon cancer in Crohn's disease patients who have been treated with metronidazole at high doses for extended periods of time. A cause and effect relationship has not been established. Additionally, almost all antibacterial agents have been associated with pseudomembranous colitis (antibiotic-associated colitis) which may range in severity from mild to life-threatening. In the colon, overgrowth of Clostridia may exist when normal flora is altered subsequent to antibacterial administration. The toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is a primary cause of pseudomembranous colitis. It is known that systemic use of antibiotics predisposes patients to development of pseudomembranous colitis. Consideration should be given to the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis in patients presenting with diarrhea following antibacterial administration. Systemic antibiotics should be prescribed with caution to patients with inflammatory bowel disease such as ulcerative colitis or other GI disease. If diarrhea develops during therapy, the drug should be discontinued. Following diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis, therapeutic measures should be instituted. In milder cases, the colitis may respond to discontinuation of the offending agent. In moderate to severe cases, fluids and electrolytes, protein supplementation, and treatment with an antibacterial effective against Clostridium difficile may be warranted. Products inhibiting peristalsis are contraindicated in this clinical situation. Practitioners should be aware that antibiotic-associated colitis has been observed to occur over two months or more following discontinuation of systemic antibiotic therapy; a careful medical history should be taken.
 
Photosensitivity can occur with tetracycline treatment, so patients should avoid or limit sunlight (UV) exposure, including sunlamps and tanning booths. It is generally agreed that sunscreens provide limited protection for this reaction. Tetracycline should be discontinued at the first sign of erythema. Photosensitivity reactions are believed to be due to accumulation of the drug in the skin and are mostly phototoxic in nature, but photoallergic reactions also can occur. Reactions can develop from within a few minutes to up to several hours after exposure and will last for 1—2 days after discontinuation of the drug.
 
In patients undergoing surgery with methoxyflurane anesthesia, concurrent use of tetracycline can increase the risk of nephrotoxicity (sometimes fatal).
 
Bismuth preparations, antimicrobials, lansoprazole, and omeprazole suppress H.pylori. Ingestion of these substances within four (4) weeks prior to performing urease or breath-tests for H. pylori detection may lead to false negative results. In the four weeks prior to performing the test, the patient must avoid the use of bismuth subsalicylate and other agents that are known to suppress H.pylori. Bismuth has also been shown to absorb x-rays and may interfere with x-ray diagnostic procedures of the gastrointestinal tract. Bismuth subsalicylate may cause a temporary and harmless darkening of the stool, but this does not interfere with standard tests for occult blood.
 
Helidac therapy is classified by the FDA as pregnancy risk category D, and the use of this combination during pregnancy is contraindicated. Tetracycline has a detrimental effect on the skeletal development and bone growth of the fetus, particularly in the second half of pregnancy. The use of metronidazole during pregnancy is controversial; systemic use may be of concern especially during the first trimester of pregnancy. Salicylates cross the placenta and can interfere with development of the fetus during the first trimester; excessive use of bismuth subsalicylate during the third trimester may result in prolonged labor, delivery complications, and increase the risk of maternal and fetal hemorrhage.
Helidac therapy is contraindicated for use in breast-feeding women.
 
Helidac therapy is absolutely contraindicated in pediatric patients including infants, children, and adolescents. Tetracycline has the potential for serious alterations of bone and tooth development, particularly in pediatric patients <= 8 years of age. Children and adolescents who have or who are recovering from chicken pox (varicella) or flu (influenza), should not use bismuth subsalicylate; Reye's syndrome (which exclusively affects children under 15 years old) has been associated with the use of salicylates following active varicella infection.
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline is also contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity to other nitroimidazole derivatives, aspirin, or salicylates.
    Headline
    malignancy
    General Information
    Metronidazole has been reported to be carcinogenic in mice and rats, whereas similar studies in hamsters have produced negative results. The drug has shown mutagenic activity in several in vitro assay systems; however, in vivo studies in mammals have not confirmed a potential for genetic damage. Human data are lacking regarding the risk of malignancy associated with metronidazole use.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline is contraindicated in individuals with severe renal impairment or renal failure. Tetracycline's antianabolic effects may increase blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and accumulation of tetracycline in individuals with severe renal dysfunction may result in elevated serum concentrations, leading to azotemia, hyperphosphatemia, and metabolic acidosis.
    Headline
    Cockayne syndrome
    General Information
    Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline is contraindicated in individuals with Cockayne syndrome. Cases of severe, irreversible hepatotoxicity and acute hepatic failure, including fatal outcomes with very rapid onset, have been reported in individuals following initiation of metronidazole. The latency period from starting metronidazole to signs of liver failure was as short as 2 days.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation
    General Information
    Use bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline with caution in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class A, Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline is not recommended in individuals with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) or hepatic failure. In individuals with hepatic impairment, metronidazole is metabolized more slowly, leading to increased plasma concentrations. Monitor individuals with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or Child-Pugh class B) for metronidazole-associated adverse reactions during therapy.
    Headline
    ethanol ingestion
    General Information
    Advise individuals receiving bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline to avoid ethanol ingestion or consumption of alcohol-containing products during therapy and for at least 3 days after completing treatment due to the risk of a disulfiram-like reaction, which may include flushing, rash, weakness, abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, and headache.
    Headline
    idiopathic intracranial hypertension, obesity
    General Information
    Prior to initiating treatment with bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline, inquire about any preexisting visual disturbances. Tetracyclines are associated with intracranial hypertension, and people who may become pregnant who have obesity or a history of idiopathic intracranial hypertension are at higher risk for developing this condition.
    Headline
    hematological disease
    General Information
    Use bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline with caution in individuals with current or past evidence of hematological disease, and monitor complete blood count (CBC) periodically during treatment. Agranulocytosis, leukopenia, and neutropenia have been associated with metronidazole use.
    Headline
    adolescents, children, infants, influenza, neonates, varicella
    General Information
    Do not use bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline in neonates, infants, and children younger than 8 years, due to the potential for serious effects on bones and teeth. Tetracyclines can be incorporated into bones and teeth during calcification, leading to permanent yellow-gray-brown discoloration and enamel hypoplasia in developing teeth, as well as reversible inhibition of bone growth. Use of bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline is not recommended in children and adolescents who have or who are recovering from chickenpox (varicella) or flu (influenza) due to the risk of Reye's syndrome. The Key Potentially Inappropriate Drugs in Pediatrics (KIDs) list includes bismuth subsalicylate and tetracycline as potentially inappropriate medications for use in neonates, infants, children, and adolescents and use should be avoided. If avoidance is not possible, use bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline with caution and appropriate monitoring.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Use bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline with caution in geriatric adults, as they may be at increased risk for QT prolongation. In addition, age-related decreases in renal and hepatic function may lead to elevated plasma concentrations of bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline, potentially increasing the risk of adverse reactions. Additional monitoring may be warranted in this population.
    Headline
    labor, obstetric delivery, pregnancy
    General Information
    There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline use during human pregnancy. Tetracycline crosses the placenta and may cause fetal harm during pregnancy. Tetracycline use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can cause permanent discoloration of the teeth and may inhibit bone development. Metronidazole crosses the placenta, but available human data, including first-trimester exposures, have not established an increased risk of major birth defects or other adverse pregnancy outcomes. Most studies, including randomized trials in more than 5,000 pregnant patients treated for bacterial vaginosis, did not show increased fetal risk. A reported association with cleft lip has not been confirmed. Although chronic oral metronidazole exposure has shown tumorigenic potential in animal studies, 3 human studies found no increased risk of infant cancer after metronidazole exposure during pregnancy, though signal detection may have been limited. The salicylate component of bismuth subsalicylate is readily absorbed. Salicylates have been associated with premature closure of the ductus arteriosus, fetal renal dysfunction, oligohydramnios, decreased birth weight, perinatal mortality, and alterations in maternal and neonatal hemostasis mechanisms. Avoid the use of salicylates near term and during labor and obstetric delivery due to the potential for excessive blood loss at delivery. Prolonged gestation and labor due to prostaglandin inhibition have been reported. Teratogenic effects are possible; fetotoxicity has been observed in animal studies with bismuth exposure.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline therapy in breast-feeding individuals. Lactating individuals may choose to pump and discard human milk for the duration of therapy and for 24 hours after their last dose. Tetracyclines are distributed in small amounts into human milk. Tetracycline antibiotics have the potential to cause tooth discoloration, enamel hypoplasia, inhibition of linear skeletal growth, and changes in gastrointestinal flora in the breastfed child. Tetracyclines bind to calcium in human milk, so the risk for oral absorption by the breast-fed child is minimal. Metronidazole is present in human milk at concentrations similar to the breast-feeding person's serum concentrations, and infant serum concentrations may approach therapeutic levels. A potential risk of tumorigenicity has been observed in animal studies. Although bismuth salts are poorly absorbed from the GI tract, salicylate from bismuth subsalicylate products may be absorbed. Potential salicylate exposure through human milk is inferred from aspirin data. In individuals taking less than 324 mg/day of aspirin, the relative infant dose (RID) was less than 0.5%. However, RIDs have been reported to increase to approximately 10% with high-dose aspirin.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Avoid the use of bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline therapy in breast-feeding individuals. Lactating individuals may choose to pump and discard human milk for the duration of therapy and for 24 hours after their last dose. Tetracyclines are distributed in small amounts into human milk. Tetracycline antibiotics have the potential to cause tooth discoloration, enamel hypoplasia, inhibition of linear skeletal growth, and changes in gastrointestinal flora in the breastfed child. Tetracyclines bind to calcium in human milk, so the risk for oral absorption by the breast-fed child is minimal. Metronidazole is present in human milk at concentrations similar to the breast-feeding person's serum concentrations, and infant serum concentrations may approach therapeutic levels. A potential risk of tumorigenicity has been observed in animal studies. Although bismuth salts are poorly absorbed from the GI tract, salicylate from bismuth subsalicylate products may be absorbed. Potential salicylate exposure through human milk is inferred from aspirin data. In individuals taking less than 324 mg/day of aspirin, the relative infant dose (RID) was less than 0.5%. However, RIDs have been reported to increase to approximately 10% with high-dose aspirin.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin; diphenhydrAMINE: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Acetaminophen; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
acetaZOLAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors whenever possible. There were reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death with high-dose aspirin and acetazolamide. Two mechanisms could cause increased acetazolamide concentrations, resulting in CNS depression and metabolic acidosis: first, competition with aspirin for renal tubular secretion and, second, displacement by salicylates from plasma protein binding sites. Additionally, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors alkalinize urine and increase the excretion of normal doses of salicylates; decreased plasma salicylate concentrations may or may not be clinically significant.
Acetohydroxamic Acid: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acidifying Agents: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Acitretin: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of acitretin and systemic tetracyclines is contraindicated, due to the potential for increased cranial pressure and an increased risk of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension). Pseudotumor cerebri has been reported with systemic retinoid use alone and early signs and symptoms include papilledema, headache, nausea, vomiting and visual disturbances.
Adagrasib: (Major) Concomitant use of adagrasib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Alfuzosin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and alfuzosin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alosetron: (Moderate) Use alosetron with caution and monitoring in patients taking additional medications that may reduce gastric motility, including antidiarrheals, due to increased risk for serious complications of constipation.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Alteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Aluminum Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracycline and antacids by 2 to 3 hours. Coadministration may impair absorption of tetracycline which may decrease its efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Carbonate: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracycline and antacids by 2 to 3 hours. Coadministration may impair absorption of tetracycline which may decrease its efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracycline and antacids by 2 to 3 hours. Coadministration may impair absorption of tetracycline which may decrease its efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracycline and antacids by 2 to 3 hours. Coadministration may impair absorption of tetracycline which may decrease its efficacy.
Aluminum Hydroxide; Magnesium Trisilicate: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracycline and antacids by 2 to 3 hours. Coadministration may impair absorption of tetracycline which may decrease its efficacy.
Amantadine: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of amantadine may produce additive effects.
Amikacin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
aMILoride: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal insufficiency in patients receiving diuretics, secondary to effects on renal blood flow. Salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin production, which causes salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. Coadministration may cause hyperkalemia.
Aminoglycosides: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Aminolevulinic Acid: (Moderate) Tetracyclines cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitizing effects photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin. (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amivantamab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with salicylates, such as bismuth subsalicylate, due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy. (Minor) Since celecoxib is metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C9, concurrent administration with metronidazole, which can inhibit this enzyme, may result in increased levels of celecoxib. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Amobarbital: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Amoxapine: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of amoxapine may produce additive effects.
Amoxicillin: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Amoxicillin; Clavulanic Acid: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B liposomal (LAmB): (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Amphotericin B: (Minor) Concurrent use of amphotericin B and other potentially nephrotoxic medications, like the salicylates, may enhance the potential for drug-induced renal toxicity.
Ampicillin: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Ampicillin; Sulbactam: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Antacids: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracycline and antacids by 2 to 3 hours. Coadministration may impair absorption of tetracycline which may decrease its efficacy.
Antithrombin III: (Moderate) Large doses of salicylates (more than 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and antithrombin III should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Apixaban: (Major) Large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Patients taking large doses of salicylates and apixaban should be monitored closely for bleeding.
Apomorphine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and apomorphine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Argatroban: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
ARIPiprazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and aripiprazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin C: (Minor) Agents that acidify the urine should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urinary pH changes can decrease salicylate excretion. If the urine is acidic prior to administration of an acidifying agent, the interaction should be minimal.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Citric Acid; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Early reports noted an increase in the excretion of tetracyclines during coadministration with sodium bicarbonate, and that the oral absorption of tetracyclines is reduced by sodium bicarbonate via increased gastric pH. However, conflicting data have been reported, and further study is needed. Two recent studies show no effect of oral sodium bicarbonate administration on tetracycline oral bioavailability. In one of these trials, coadministration with sodium bicarbonate was reported to have no effect on tetracycline urinary excretion, Cmax, or AUC. Until more information is available, avoid simultaneous administration of sodium bicarbonate and tetracyclines. When concurrent therapy is needed, stagger administration times by several hours to minimize the potential for interaction, and monitor for antimicrobial efficacy. (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Dipyridamole: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Atezolizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and atomoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Atovaquone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tetracycline can reduce the plasma concentrations of atovaquone by approximately 40%. Parasitemia should be closely monitored in patients receiving atovaquone and tetracycline.
Atovaquone; Proguanil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of tetracycline can reduce the plasma concentrations of atovaquone by approximately 40%. Parasitemia should be closely monitored in patients receiving atovaquone and tetracycline.
Atracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Azelastine; Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bacitracin: (Minor) Additive nephrotoxicity may occur with concurrent use of systemic bacitracin and other nephrotoxic agents, including salicylates. Topical administration of any preparation containing bacitracin, especially when applied to large surface areas, also should not be given with other drugs that have a nephrotoxic potential.
Barbiturates: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Beclomethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Benazepril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Benztropine: (Moderate) Both antidiarrheals and anticholinergics, such as benztropine, decrease GI motility. Use of these drugs together may produce additive effects on the GI track; thereby increasing the risk for toxic megacolon.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Betamethasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between loperamide and drugs that enhance peristalsis are theoretically possible. It is wise to avoid use loperamide in patients who require bethanechol.
Bexarotene: (Major) The concomitant use of systemic retinoid therapy, such as bexarotene, and systemic tetracyclines should be avoided due to the potential for increased cranial pressure and an increased risk of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension). Pseudotumor cerebri has been reported with systemic retionoid use alone and early signs and symptoms include papilledema, headache, nausea, vomiting and visual disturbances.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Bivalirudin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Bortezomib: (Minor) Monitor patients for the development of peripheral neuropathy when receiving bortezomib in combination with other drugs that can cause peripheral neuropathy like metronidazole; the risk of peripheral neuropathy may be additive.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects and reduced efficacy of both medications if concomitant use of bromocriptine and a salicylate is necessary. Both medications are highly protein-bound and concomitant use may increase the unbound fraction of drug in circulation increasing the risk for adverse effects or enhancing drug elimination and reducing overall drug exposure.
Budesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
BUPivacaine; Meloxicam: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of meloxicam with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Busulfan: (Major) Systemic metronidazole should not be administered with busulfan unless the benefit outweighs the risk. If no therapeutic alternatives to metronidazole exist, monitor busulfan concentrations and adjust the busulfan doses as necessary. Metronidazole may increase plasma concentrations of busulfan, which can result in an increased risk for serious busulfan toxicity such as sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, gastrointestinal mucositis, and hepatic veno-occlusive disease.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Moderate) Monitor for salicylate-related adverse effects, including salicylate toxicity, if concomitant use of aspirin and bismuth subsalicylate is necessary. Adverse reactions, such as bleeding, renal impairment, and tinnitus, may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at three times the maximum recommended dose.
Calcium Acetate: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Calcium Carbonate: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Calcium Carbonate; Famotidine; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines. (Minor) H2-blockers may increase the systemic absorption of bismuth from bismuth-containing compounds like bismuth subsalicylate.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Calcium Carbonate; Magnesium Hydroxide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Calcium Carbonate; Simethicone: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Calcium Chloride: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Calcium Gluconate: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Calcium: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Calcium; Vitamin D: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant canagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Capreomycin: (Major) Since capreomycin is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug. Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered.
Captopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
carBAMazepine: (Minor) Monitor serum concentrations of carbamazepine when coadministered with systemic metronidazole. Concomitant use with metronidazole may increase the serum concentrations of carbamazepine; thereby, increasing the risk of side effects.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Cefixime: (Minor) In vitro, salicylates have displaced cefixime from its protein-binding sites, resulting in a 50% increase in free cefixime levels. The clinical significance of this effect is unclear at this time.
cefoTEtan: (Minor) Cefotetan has been associated with hypoprothrombinemia and may cause additive effects when given concurrently with salicylates.
Celecoxib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with salicylates, such as bismuth subsalicylate, due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy. (Minor) Since celecoxib is metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C9, concurrent administration with metronidazole, which can inhibit this enzyme, may result in increased levels of celecoxib. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of celecoxib with salicylates, such as bismuth subsalicylate, due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy. (Minor) Since celecoxib is metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C9, concurrent administration with metronidazole, which can inhibit this enzyme, may result in increased levels of celecoxib. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been established.
Ceritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ceritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of phenothiazines may produce additive effects.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Cholera Vaccine: (Major) Avoid the live cholera vaccine in patients that have received tetracycline within 14 days prior to vaccination. Concurrent administration of the live cholera vaccine with antibiotics active against cholera, such as tetracycline, may diminish vaccine efficacy and result in suboptimal immune response. A duration of fewer than 14 days between stopping antibiotics and vaccination might also be acceptable in some clinical settings if travel cannot be avoided before 14 days have elapsed after stopping antibiotics.
Cholestyramine: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, or for cholestyramine, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by either cholestyramine or colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction. To minimize drug interactions, administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of cholestyramine. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines. (Moderate) Administer metronidazole at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after administration of cholestyramine. The oral bioavailability of metronidazole was reduced by 21% when given with cholestyramine.
Chromium: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Ciclesonide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cidofovir: (Major) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Salicylates should be given with caution to patients taking cidofovir.
Cimetidine: (Moderate) Monitor for metronidazole-related adverse effects during concomitant cimetidine use. Cimetidine decreases hepatic microsomal liver enzyme activity and may prolong the half-life and decrease plasma clearance of metronidazole. (Minor) H2-blockers may increase the systemic absorption of bismuth from bismuth-containing compounds like bismuth subsalicylate.
Ciprofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ciprofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of metronidazole and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Cisatracurium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clofazimine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of clofazimine and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
cloZAPine: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of clozapine may produce additive effects. (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and clozapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Colesevelam: (Moderate) Colesevelam may decrease the bioavailability of tetracyclines. To minimize potential for interactions, consider administering oral tetracyclines at least 4 hours before colesevelam. The manufacturer for colesevelam suggests monitoring serum drug concentrations and/or clinical effects for those drugs for which alterations in serum blood concentrations have a clinically significant effect on safety or efficacy.
Colestipol: (Major) Colestipol has been shown to reduce tetracycline absorption by roughly 50%. It is likely this is enough to cause a clinically significant effect. Although no data are available for other tetracyclines, it should be assumed that any tetracycline antibiotic may be affected similarly by colestipol. Staggering oral doses of each agent is recommended to minimize this pharmacokinetic interaction; administer tetracyclines at least 1 hour before or at least 4 to 6 hours after the administration of colestipol. Since doxycycline undergoes enterohepatic recirculation, it may be even more susceptible to this drug interaction than the other tetracyclines.
Colistimethate, Colistin, Polymyxin E: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Colistin: (Major) Theoretically, the chronic coadministration of these drugs may increase the risk of developing nephrotoxicity, even in patients who have normal renal function. Monitor patients for changes in renal function if these drugs are coadministered. Since colistimethate sodium is eliminated by the kidney, coadministration with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, including salicylates, may increase serum concentrations of either drug.
Corticosteroids: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Cortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Crizotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and crizotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Crofelemer: (Moderate) Pharmacodynamic interactions between crofelemer and other antidiarrheals are theoretically possible. Crofelemer does not affect GI motility mechanisms, but does have antidiarrheal effects. Patients taking antidiarrheal medications that decrease GI motility may be at greater risk for serious complications from crofelemer, such as constipation with chronic use. During clinical trials with crofelemer, patients were excluded if they were actively using other antidiarrheal medications. Use caution and monitor GI symptoms during coadministration.
cycloPHOSphamide: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cyclophosphamide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with metronidazole is necessary. Acute encephalopathy has been reported in one patient receiving cyclophosphamide and metronidazole, although causal association is unclear. In an animal study, the combination of cyclophosphamide with metronidazole was associated with an increase in cyclophosphamide toxicity.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Monitor serum concentrations of cyclosporine when coadministered with systemic metronidazole. Concomitant use with metronidazole may increase the serum concentrations of cyclosporine; thereby, increasing the risk of side effects. Also, medications with significant alcohol content should not be ingested during therapy with metronidazole and should be avoided for 3 days after metronidazole is discontinued. Cyclosporine parenteral and oral solutions contain ethanol; liquid-filled capsules contain ethanol in lower percentages. Administration of ethanol-containing formulations of cyclosporine to patients receiving or who have recently received metronidazole may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations. (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like cyclosporine may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Dabigatran: (Major) Educate patients about the signs of increased bleeding and the need to report these signs to a healthcare provider immediately if coadministration of dabigatran and aspirin or another salicylate is necessary. Dabigatran can cause significant and, sometimes, fatal bleeding. This risk may be increased by concurrent use of chronic salicylate therapy.
Dalteparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant dapagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Daratumumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Dasatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and dasatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Because gastric ulceration and GI bleeding have been reported in patients taking deferasirox, use caution when coadministering with other drugs known to increase the risk of peptic ulcers or gastric hemorrhage including salicylates.
Deflazacort: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Degarelix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Desvenlafaxine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Deutetrabenazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and deutetrabenazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with deutetrabenazine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Diclofenac: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of diclofenac with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of diclofenac with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Dicloxacillin: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Dicyclomine: (Moderate) Both antidiarrheals and anticholinergics, such as dicyclomine, decrease GI motility. Use of these drugs together may produce additive effects on the GI track; thereby increasing the risk for toxic megacolon.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Moderate) It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of oral contraceptives containing estrogens due to stimulation of estrogen metabolism or a reduction in estrogen enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with oral contraceptives (OCs) and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma levels of oral contraceptives. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review of the subject concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Diflunisal: (Major) The concurrent use of diflunisal and salicylates is not recommended due to the increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity with little or no increase in anti-inflammatory efficacy.
Digoxin: (Major) Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating tetracyclines. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing the digoxin dose by approximately 30 to 50% or by modifying the dosing frequency, and continue monitoring. In approximately 10% of patients, a small portion of a digoxin dose is metabolized in the gut by intestinal Eubacterium lentum, an anaerobic bacillus, to inactive digoxin reduction products (DRPs). DRPs have little cardiac activity due to poor cardiac receptor binding and rapid excretion. Certain antibiotics can reduce the activity of intestinal bacteria, which, in turn, may enhance digoxin bioavailability via decreased DRP formation and increased enterohepatic recycling of digoxin in some patients. The addition of tetracycline to digoxin therapy has been reported to increase the serum digoxin concentration by 100%. Digoxin toxicity has been reported in patients previously stabilized on digoxin who receive antibiotics that affect E. lentum, such as tetracyclines. Other antibiotics that have activity against E. lentum may produce similar effects on digoxin metabolism.
diphenhydrAMINE; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
diphenhydrAMINE; Naproxen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of naproxen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Disulfiram: (Contraindicated) The combination of systemic metronidazole and disulfiram is contraindicated. Do not administer systemic metronidazole concomitantly or within 2 weeks after the administration of disulfiram because additive CNS toxic effects can occur. Case reports have described the development of CNS toxicity after metronidazole was administered with disulfiram, resulting in psychosis and confusion. This toxicity is believed to occur because of combined inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase. When metronidazole and disulfiram are combined, symptoms may become evident within 10 to 14 days, and symptoms may remain for 2 to 3 days after the drugs are discontinued.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at three times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and donepezil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Doxercalciferol: (Moderate) Cytochrome P450 enzyme inhibitors, such as metronidazole, may inhibit the 25-hydroxylation of doxercalciferol, thereby decreasing the formation of the active metabolite and thus, decreasing efficacy.
Doxycycline: (Minor) Administer oral doxycycline at least 2 hours before oral bismuth subsalicylate formulations that contain magnesium aluminum silicate. Bismuth subsalicylate formulations that contain magnesium aluminum silicate are expected to interfere with doxycycline oral absorption and have been observed to reduce oral bioavailability by 22% to 51% without appropriate separation. This reduction in oral bioavailability may be clinically relevant in patients with additional risk factors for doxycycline treatment failure.
droNABinol: (Major) The use of metronidazole within 14 days of beginning therapy with dronabinol oral solution is contraindicated, due to the risk of a disulfiram-like reaction. Do not administer metronidazole within 7 days of completing therapy with the oral solution. Dronabinol oral solution contains 50% (w/w) dehydrated alcohol and 5% (w/w) propylene glycol, which can produce disulfiram-like reactions (e.g., abdominal cramps, nausea/vomiting, headaches, and flushing) with drugs such as metronidazole. Ethanol competitively inhibits the metabolism of propylene glycol; however, the contribution of propylene glycol to these reactions is unknown. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations (e.g., dronabinol oral capsules).
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of metronidazole and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Drospirenone: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
DULoxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Edoxaban: (Moderate) Patients taking large doses of salicylates and edoxaban should be monitored closely for bleeding. Large doses of salicylates (3 g to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Efavirenz: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and efavirenz may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Efgartigimod Alfa; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Eliglustat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and eliglustat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant empagliflozin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at three times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus. (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at three times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Enalapril, Enalaprilat: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Encorafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and encorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Enoxaparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Erythromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and erythromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Escitalopram: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and escitalopram may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Estradiol: (Moderate) It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of oral contraceptives containing estrogens due to stimulation of estrogen metabolism or a reduction in estrogen enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with oral contraceptives (OCs) and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma levels of oral contraceptives. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review of the subject concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Ethanol: (Major) Concomitant ingestion of alcohol with salicylates, especially aspirin, ASA, increases the risk of developing gastric irritation and GI mucosal bleeding. Alcohol and salicylates are mucosal irritants and aspirin decreases platelet aggregation. Routine ingestion of alcohol and aspirin can cause significant GI bleeding, which may or may not be overt. Even occasional concomitant use of salicylates and alcohol should be avoided. Chronic ingestion of alcohol is often associated with hypoprothrombinemia and this condition increases the risk of salicylate-induced bleeding. Patients should be warned regarding the potential for increased risk of GI bleeding if alcohol-containing beverages are taken concurrently with salicylates. (Major) Per the manufacturer of metronidazole, advise patients to avoid alcohol consumption during and for at least 3 days after therapy with systemic metronidazole due to the risk for disulfiram-like side effects. By contrast, clinical practice guidelines suggest alcohol avoidance is unnecessary as metronidazole does not inhibit acetaldehyde dehydrogenase, as occurs with disulfiram. Additionally, while disulfiram-like side effects, including nausea, vomiting, tachycardia, headache, flushing, and abdominal cramps, have been observed following recreational alcohol consumption in patients receiving metronidazole, the quality of evidence is insufficient to establish causality. (Minor) When alcohol is used for procedural ablation in a patient receiving metronidazole there is likely minimal risk for adverse effects. Disulfiram-like side effects, including nausea, vomiting, tachycardia, headache, flushing, and abdominal cramps, have been observed following recreational alcohol consumption in patients receiving metronidazole. Clinical practice guidelines suggest the risk for disulfiram-like side effects is minimal as metronidazole does not inhibit acetaldehyde dehydrogenase, as occurs with disulfiram, and previously observed adverse effects are equally attributable to either alcohol or metronidazole alone.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Etodolac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Etrasimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of etrasimod and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Famotidine: (Minor) H2-blockers may increase the systemic absorption of bismuth from bismuth-containing compounds like bismuth subsalicylate.
Fenoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Ferric Maltol: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Concomitant use of fexinidazole and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fingolimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and fingolimod may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Floxuridine: (Minor) Enhancement of toxicity of fluorouracil, 5-FU, has been reported in a limited number of patients during concurrent treatment with metronidazole. This toxicity occurred without an increase in efficacy of fluorouracil. Toxicity may manifest as granulocytopenia, oral ulceration, anemia, and nausea and vomiting. This interaction is believed to occur through reduced clearance of fluorouracil. Floxuridine is a deoxyribonucleoside derivative of fluorouracil and may interact with metronidazole in a similar manner.
Fluconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and fluconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Fludrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Flunisolide: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluorouracil, 5-FU: (Minor) Caution is warranted with the coadministration of systemic metronidazole and systemic fluorouracil, 5-FU. Concomitant use with metronidazole may increase the serum concentrations of fluorouracil; thereby, increasing the risk of side effects. Toxicity may manifest as granulocytopenia, oral ulceration, anemia, and nausea and vomiting.
FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and fluoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin.
fluPHENAZine: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of phenothiazines may produce additive effects. (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of metronidazole and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Flurbiprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Fluticasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
fluvoxaMINE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and fluvoxamine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin.
Fondaparinux: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with fondaparinux. Data on the concomitant use of fondaparinux with aspirin are lacking; however, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Food: (Major) Calcium salts that are present in foods and dairy products can form chelates with tetracycline and impair absorption. Administer tetracycline at least one hour prior to or two hours after a meal and/or milk. (Major) Iron salts that are present in foods and dairy products can form chelates with tetracycline and impair absorption. Administer tetracycline at least one hour prior to or two hours after a meal and/or milk.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as foscarnet, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Fosphenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor phenytoin concentrations and for loss of metronidazole efficacy during concomitant therapy with fosphenytoin. Fosphenytoin may accelerate the elimination of metronidazole, resulting in reduced plasma concentrations; impaired clearance of phenytoin has also been reported. (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Fosphenytoin is converted to phenytoin in vivo, so this interaction may also occur with fosphenytoin.
Fostemsavir: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and fostemsavir may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Gemifloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and gemifloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and gemtuzumab ozogamicin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Gentamicin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Gepirone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of gepirone and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and gilteritinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and bismuth subsalicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and bismuth subsalicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and bismuth subsalicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and bismuth subsalicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and bismuth subsalicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Goserelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and granisetron may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Griseofulvin: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of griseofulvin with salicylates may result in decreased salicylate serum concentrations. Caution and close monitoring for changes in the effectiveness of the salicylate are recommended.
H2-blockers: (Minor) H2-blockers may increase the systemic absorption of bismuth from bismuth-containing compounds like bismuth subsalicylate.
Halobetasol; Tazarotene: (Moderate) The manufacturer states that tazarotene should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as tetracyclines, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and haloperidol may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Heparin: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin). Despite the potential drug-drug interaction between aspirin and heparin, heparin is frequently administered in combination with low-dose aspirin therapy to patients who have had an acute myocardial infarction and in other disease states. In addition, large doses of salicylates (at least 3 to 4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. (Minor) Tetracyclines may partially counteract the anticoagulant actions of heparin, according to the product labels. However, this interaction is not likely of clinical significance in most patients since heparin therapy is adjusted to the partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and other clinical parameters of the patient.
Histrelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Hyaluronidase, Recombinant; Immune Globulin: (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function. (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and hydroxyzine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Hyoscyamine; Methenamine; Methylene Blue; Phenyl Salicylate; Sodium Biphosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Ibritumomab Tiuxetan: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Ibuprofen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Ibuprofen; Famotidine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy. (Minor) H2-blockers may increase the systemic absorption of bismuth from bismuth-containing compounds like bismuth subsalicylate.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ibuprofen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Immune Globulin (IVIG, IMIG, SCIG): (Moderate) Immune Globulin (IG) products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include patients receiving known nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and salicylates. Coadminister IG products at the minimum concentration available and the minimum rate of infusion practicable. Also, closely monitor renal function.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Indomethacin: (Major) The concurrent use of salicylates and indomethacin is not recommended. Combined use does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than indomethacin monotherapy. Also, a significantly greater incidence of gastrointestinal adverse effects with concurrent use has been observed. Because NSAIDs can cause GI bleeding, inhibit platelet aggregation, and prolong bleeding time, additive effects may be seen in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin), anticoagulants, or thrombolytic agents.
Inotersen: (Moderate) Use caution with concomitant use of inotersen and salicylates due to the risk of glomerulonephritis and nephrotoxicity as well as the potential risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Consider discontinuation of salicylates in a patient taking inotersen with a platelet count of less than 50,000 per microliter.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and inotuzumab increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Insoluble Prussian Blue: (Moderate) The binding of Insoluble Prussian Blue to some orally administered therapeutic drugs and essential nutrients is possible. The blood concentrations and/or clinical response to critical coadministered products should be monitored during Insoluble Prussian Blue therapy.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Insulins: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Iron Salts: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Iron Sucrose, Sucroferric Oxyhydroxide: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of tetracyclines will be significantly reduced by orally administered compounds that contain iron salts. To minimize the potential for this interaction, administer tetracycline antibiotics at least 1 hour before oral iron sucrose, sucroferric oxyhydroxide.
Iron: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
ISOtretinoin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of isotretinoin and systemic tetracyclines due to the potential for increased cranial pressure and an increased risk of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension). Pseudotumor cerebri has been reported with both systemic retinoid and tetracycline use alone. Early signs and symptoms include papilledema, headache, nausea, vomiting, and visual disturbances.
Itraconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and itraconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ixabepilone: (Moderate) Monitor for a disulfiram-like reaction if concomitant use of ixabepilone and metronidazole is necessary. Disulfiram-like side effects, including nausea, vomiting, tachycardia, headache, flushing, and abdominal cramps, have been observed following recreational alcohol consumption in patients receiving metronidazole. Ixabepilone is formulated with ethanol, and each 40 mg/m2 dose delivers approximately 8.4 g/m2 of ethanol. Clinical practice guidelines suggest that the risk for disulfiram-like side effects with metronidazole is minimal as metronidazole does not inhibit acetaldehyde dehydrogenase and previously observed adverse effects are equally attributable to either alcohol or metronidazole alone.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and metronidazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation has been reported, particularly when metronidazole was administered with drugs with the potential for prolonging the QT interval, like ketoconazole.
Ketoprofen: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Ketorolac: (Contraindicated) Ketorolac is contraindicated in patients currently receiving salicylates due to increased risk of serious NSAID-related adverse events, including gastrointestinal bleeding, ulceration, and perforation.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Lanthanum Carbonate: (Major) Oral compounds known to interact with antacids, like tetracyclines, should not be taken within 2 hours of dosing with lanthanum carbonate. If these agents are used concomitantly, space the dosing intervals appropriately. Monitor serum concentrations and clinical condition.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and lapatinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lefamulin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and lefamulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Leuprolide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
levoFLOXacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and levofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and metronidazole due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. QT prolongation has been reported, particularly when metronidazole was administered with drugs with the potential for prolonging the QT interval, like ketoconazole.
Levomilnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Levonorgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant linagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lisinopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Lithium: (Major) The interaction between lithium and tetracycline appears variable. Both lithium toxicity and reduction in lithium concentrations have been reported during concurrent administration of tetracycline. Use of an alternative antibiotic should be considered in patients receiving lithium; however, if concurrent use of tetracycline is necessary, close monitoring of lithium levels and clinical response is recommended. (Moderate) Concomitant use of lithium and metronidazole may increase serum lithium concentrations and increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Monitor serum lithium concentrations; reduce the lithium dose based on lithium serum concentrations and clinical response. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lomitapide: (Moderate) Caution should be exercised when lomitapide is used with other medications known to have potential for hepatotoxicity, such as tetracyclines. The effect of concomitant administration of lomitapide with other hepatotoxic medications is unknown. More frequent monitoring of liver-related tests may be warranted.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and loperamide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and lopinavir; ritonavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Medications with significant alcohol content should not be ingested during therapy with metronidazole and should be avoided for 3 days after therapy is discontinued. Ritonavir oral solution and capsules contain ethanol. Administration of ritonavir oral solution or capsules to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram or metronidazole may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations of ritonavir (e.g., tablets, oral powder).
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Low Molecular Weight Heparins: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving a low molecular weight heparin in combination with other agents known to increase the risk of bleeding such as salicylates. Monitor clinical and laboratory response closely during concurrent use.
Macimorelin: (Major) Avoid use of macimorelin with drugs that directly affect pituitary growth hormone secretion, such as salicylates. Healthcare providers are advised to discontinue salicylate therapy and observe a sufficient washout period before administering macimorelin. Use of these medications together may impact the accuracy of the macimorelin growth hormone test. (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mafenide: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Magnesium Citrate: (Moderate) Administer magnesium citrate at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Magnesium Hydroxide: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracycline and antacids by 2 to 3 hours. Coadministration may impair absorption of tetracycline which may decrease its efficacy.
Magnesium Salts: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations. (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracycline and antacids by 2 to 3 hours. Coadministration may impair absorption of tetracycline which may decrease its efficacy.
Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Sulfate; Sodium Sulfate: (Major) Administer tetracyclines at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate. The absorption of tetracyclines may be reduced by chelation with magnesium sulfate.
Magnesium: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Mannitol: (Major) In general, avoid use of mannitol and salicylates. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs, such as the salicylates, increases the risk of renal failure after administration of mannitol. However, mannitol promotes the urinary excretion of salicylates, and may be used as an adjunct in salicylate intoxication.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Measles Virus; Mumps Virus; Rubella Virus; Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Mebendazole: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of mebendazole and metronidazole. Serious skin reactions, such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis, have been reported with coadministration.
Meclofenamate Sodium: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Mefenamic Acid: (Major) Increased adverse gastrointestinal (GI) effects are possible if mefenamic acid is used with salicylates. In addition, concomitant administration of salicylates and mefenamic acid may result in an increase in unbound plasma concentrations of either drug, which could result in greater adverse effects. In general, concomitant use of aspirin and mefenamic acid is not recommended.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and mefloquine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Meloxicam: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of meloxicam with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Meloxicam; Rizatriptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of meloxicam with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
methazolAMIDE: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of high-dose salicylates and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, like methazolamide, whenever possible. The combination yielded reports of anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death. The mechanism appears to be accumulation of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, resulting in increased CNS depression and metabolic acidosis. The acidosis may allow greater CNS penetration of the salicylate.
Methenamine; Sodium Acid Phosphate; Methylene Blue; Hyoscyamine: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Methohexital: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Methotrexate: (Major) Do not administer salicylates before or concomitantly with high doses of methotrexate, such as used in the treatment of osteosarcoma. Concomitant administration of some NSAIDs with high dose methotrexate therapy has been reported to elevate and prolong serum methotrexate concentrations, resulting in deaths from severe hematologic and gastrointestinal toxicity. Use caution when salicylates are administered concomitantly with lower doses of methotrexate. Salicylates have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model and may enhance its toxicity. Methotrexate is partially bound to serum albumin, and toxicity may be increased because of displacement by salicylates. (Moderate) Monitor for methotrexate-related adverse reactions during concomitant tetracyclines use. Tetracyclines may decrease intestinal absorption of methotrexate or interfere with the enterohepatic circulation by inhibiting bowel flora and suppressing metabolism of methotrexate by bacteria.
Methoxsalen: (Moderate) Use methoxsalen and tetracyclines together with caution; the risk of severe burns/photosensitivity may be additive. If concurrent use is necessary, closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of skin toxicity.
methylPREDNISolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Metoclopramide: (Minor) Metoclopramide can increase the rate or extent of absorption of tetracycline because of accelerated gastric emptying, which increases the contact time with the small bowel where this drug is absorbed.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and mifepristone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and mirtazapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Moexipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Molindone: (Major) The tablet formulation of molindone contains calcium sulfate as an excipient and the calcium ions may interfere with the absorption of tetracyclines. It may be advisable to consider an alternative to tetracycline treatment during molindone administration.
Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mycophenolate: (Moderate) Coadministration of mycophenolate mofetil, norfloxacin, and metronidazole is not recommended. Administration of all 3 drugs significantly reduced the systemic exposure of mycophenolic acid. Specifically, as compared with the value obtained with mycophenolate mofetil monotherapy, the mean mycophenolic acid AUC (0 to 48 h) was decreased by 33% when 1 gram of mycophenolate mofetil was administered to healthy patients who had received 4 days of both norfloxacin and metronidazole. The mycophenolic acid systemic exposure was slightly reduced when mycophenolate mofetil was coadministered with either norfloxacin or metronidazole. The mean (+/-SD) mycophenolic acid AUC (0 to 48 h) was 56.2 (+/-24) mcgh/ml after mycophenolate mofetil monotherapy, 48.3 (+/-24) mcgh/ml after coadministration with norfloxacin, and 42.7 (+/-23) mcgh/ml after coadministration with metronidazole. Addtionally, potential QT prolongation has been reported in limited case reports with metronidazole; therefore, it should be used cautiously when adminstered with norfloxacin, which has a possible risk for QT prolongation and TdP. (Moderate) Mycophenolic acid is more than 98% bound to albumin. Concurrent use of mycophenolate with salicylates can decrease the protein binding of mycophenolic acid resulting in an increase in the free fraction of MPA. Patients should be observed for increased clinical effects from mycophenolate as well as additive adverse effects.
Nabumetone: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Nafcillin: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Naproxen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of naproxen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of naproxen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of naproxen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Neuromuscular blockers: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Nilotinib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and nilotinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Medications with significant alcohol content should not be ingested during therapy with metronidazole and should be avoided for 3 days after therapy is discontinued. Ritonavir oral solution and capsules contain ethanol. Administration of ritonavir oral solution or capsules to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram or metronidazole may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations of ritonavir (e.g., tablets, oral powder).
Nitazoxanide: (Moderate) The active metabolite of nitazoxanide, tizoxanide, is highly bound to plasma proteins. Caution should be exercised when administering nitazoxanide concurrently with other highly plasma protein-bound drugs with narrow therapeutic indices because competition for binding sites may occur.
Nivolumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Nizatidine: (Minor) H2-blockers may increase the systemic absorption of bismuth from bismuth-containing compounds like bismuth subsalicylate.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Norethindrone: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available. (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Norgestrel: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Ocrelizumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Ofloxacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ofloxacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of olanzapine may produce additive effects. (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of olanzapine may produce additive effects. (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and fluoxetine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of olanzapine may produce additive effects. (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and olanzapine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Olopatadine; Mometasone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Early reports noted an increase in the excretion of tetracyclines during coadministration with sodium bicarbonate, and that the oral absorption of tetracyclines is reduced by sodium bicarbonate via increased gastric pH. However, conflicting data have been reported, and further study is needed. Two recent studies show no effect of oral sodium bicarbonate administration on tetracycline oral bioavailability. In one of these trials, coadministration with sodium bicarbonate was reported to have no effect on tetracycline urinary excretion, Cmax, or AUC. Until more information is available, avoid simultaneous administration of sodium bicarbonate and tetracyclines. When concurrent therapy is needed, stagger administration times by several hours to minimize the potential for interaction, and monitor for antimicrobial efficacy.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ondansetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oral Contraceptives: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Osilodrostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and osilodrostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxacillin: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaprozin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
PACLitaxel: (Major) Medications with significant alcohol content should not be ingested during therapy with metronidazole and should be avoided for 3 days after therapy is discontinued. Some formulations of paclitaxel contain a high level of ethanol. Administration to patients receiving or who have recently received metronidazole may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of pacritinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and tetracyclines due to an increased risk for intracranial hypertension. Both tetracyclines and retinoids have been associated with this adverse effect and concomitant use may increase risk.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Paromomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
PARoxetine: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin.
Pasireotide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pasireotide may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pembrolizumab; berahyaluronidase alfa: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Penicillin G Benzathine: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Penicillin G Benzathine; Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Penicillin G Procaine: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Penicillin G: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Penicillin V: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Penicillins: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of pentamidine and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Pentosan: (Moderate) Pentosan is a weak anticoagulant. Pentosan has 1/15 the anticoagulant activity of heparin. An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving other platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, ASA) in combination with pentosan. Also, large doses of salicylates (>= 3-4 g/day) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding.
Perindopril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Perphenazine: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of phenothiazines may produce additive effects. (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of metronidazole and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of phenothiazines may produce additive effects. (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of metronidazole and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Pertuzumab; Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
PHENobarbital: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Phenytoin: (Moderate) Monitor phenytoin concentrations and for loss of metronidazole efficacy during concomitant therapy. Phenytoin may accelerate the elimination of metronidazole, resulting in reduced plasma concentrations; impaired clearance of phenytoin has also been reported. (Minor) Large doses of salicylates can displace phenytoin from plasma protein-binding sites. Although increased serum concentrations of unbound phenytoin may lead to phenytoin toxicity, the liver may also more rapidly clear unbound drug. Displacement of phenytoin from binding sites can lead to a decrease in the total phenytoin serum concentration. Close monitoring for excessive phenytoin toxicity or decreased phenytoin efficacy is recommended.
Phosphorated Carbohydrate Solution: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Phosphorus: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Photosensitizing agents (topical): (Moderate) Tetracyclines cause photosensitivity and may increase the photosensitizing effects photosensitizing agents used in photodynamic therapy. Prevention of photosensitivity includes adequate protection from sources of UV radiation and the use of protective clothing and sunscreens on exposed skin. (Minor) Preclinical data suggest that agents that affect platelet function and inhibit prostaglandin synthesis could decrease the efficacy of photosensitizing agents used during photodynamic therapy.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of metronidazole and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and bismuth subsalicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant metformin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Piperacillin; Tazobactam: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Piroxicam: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pivmecillinam: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Plazomicin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Polycarbophil: (Major) Coadministration of calcium polycarbophil with orally administered tetracyclines can decrease the absorption of tetracyclines; oral doses of tetracyclines should be given 2 hours before or after the administration of calcium polycarbophil. Each 625 mg of calcium polycarbophil contains a substantial amount of calcium (approximately 125 mg). This effect is presumably due to the chelation of the antibiotic by the calcium.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes: (Major) Administer tetracyclines at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate. The absorption of tetracyclines may be reduced by chelation with magnesium sulfate.
Polyethylene Glycol; Electrolytes; Ascorbic Acid: (Major) Administer tetracyclines at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of magnesium sulfate; potassium sulfate; sodium sulfate. The absorption of tetracyclines may be reduced by chelation with magnesium sulfate.
Polysaccharide-Iron Complex: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Porfimer: (Major) Avoid coadministration of porfimer with tetracyclines due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Porfimer is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with porfimer will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like tetracyclines may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Posaconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and posaconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Potassium Phosphate: (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Potassium Phosphate; Sodium Phosphate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic. (Moderate) Agents that acidify the urine, like phosphate salts, should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose salicylates. Urine acidifying agents may increase renal tubular reabsorption of salicylic acid and possibly increase salicylic acid levels.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Salicylates can indirectly increase insulin secretion, and thus decrease blood glucose concentrations. In large doses, salicylates may cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose, aspirin can cause either hypo- or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients receiving antidiabetic agents.
prednisoLONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
predniSONE: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Primaquine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of primaquine and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Primidone: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of phenothiazines may produce additive effects. (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of metronidazole and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and promethazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Psyllium: (Moderate) Psyllium can interfere with the absorption of certain oral drugs if administered concomitantly. For example, psyllium fiber can adsorb salicylates. Per the psyllium manufacturers, administration of other prescribed oral drugs should be separated from the administration of psyllium by at least 2 hours.
pyRIDostigmine: (Moderate) Parenteral administration of high doses of certain antibiotics such as tetracyclines may intensify or produce neuromuscular block through their own pharmacologic actions. If unexpected prolongation of neuromuscular block or resistance to its reversal with pyridostigmine occurs, consider the possibility of an antibiotic effect.
Pyridoxine, Vitamin B6: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quinapril: (Major) Tetracycline absorption is reduced by about 28 to 37% with coadministration with quinapril, presumably due to the magnesium in the quinapril tablet. This interaction should be taken into account when prescribing tetracyclines with quinapril. (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Major) Tetracycline absorption is reduced by about 28 to 37% with coadministration with quinapril, presumably due to the magnesium in the quinapril tablet. This interaction should be taken into account when prescribing tetracyclines with quinapril. (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Concomitant administration of quinine and tetracycline may result in higher quinine plasma concentrations. It is recommended that patients be monitored closely for quinine-associated adverse reactions if tetracycline is given with quinine.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ramelteon: (Moderate) Coadministration of ramelteon with inhibitors of CYP2C9, such as metronidazole, may lead to increases in the serum concentrations of ramelteon.
Ramipril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ranolazine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant insulin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Relugolix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Salicylates, by inhibiting prostaglandin E2 synthesis, can indirectly increase insulin secretion. Thus, salicylates can decrease blood sugar and may potentiate the effects of antidiabetic agents. In large doses, salicylates uncouple oxidative phosphorylation, deplete hepatic and muscle glycogen, and cause hyperglycemia and glycosuria. After acute overdose or use of greater than maximum recommended daily dosages, salicylates can cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. Large doses of aspirin should be used cautiously in patients who receive antidiabetic agents.
Reteplase, r-PA: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ribociclib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and rilpivirine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at three times the maximum recommended dose.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and risperidone may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ritonavir: (Major) Medications with significant alcohol content should not be ingested during therapy with metronidazole and should be avoided for 3 days after therapy is discontinued. Ritonavir oral solution and capsules contain ethanol. Administration of ritonavir oral solution or capsules to patients receiving or who have recently received disulfiram or metronidazole may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations of ritonavir (e.g., tablets, oral powder).
riTUXimab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Salicylates such as aspirin are known to increase bleeding, and bleeding risk may be increased when these drugs are used concomitantly with rivaroxaban. The safety of long-term concomitant use of these drugs has not been studied. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of bleeding or blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with salicylates. In a single-dose drug interaction study, no pharmacokinetic interactions were observed after concomitant administration of acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin, ASA) with rivaroxaban.
Rocuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
romiDEPsin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and romidepsin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
Saquinavir: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and saquinavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant saxagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Secobarbital: (Moderate) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as barbiturates. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur. (Minor) Barbiturates may decrease the half-life and plasma concentrations of metronidazole. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Moderate) It would be prudent to recommend alternative or additional contraception when oral contraceptives (OCs) are used in conjunction with antibiotics. It was previously thought that antibiotics may decrease the effectiveness of OCs containing estrogens due to stimulation of metabolism or a reduction in enterohepatic circulation via changes in GI flora. One retrospective study reviewed the literature to determine the effects of oral antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of contraceptive estrogens and progestins, and also examined clinical studies in which the incidence of pregnancy with OCs and antibiotics was reported. It was concluded that the antibiotics ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, doxycycline, metronidazole, ofloxacin, roxithromycin, temafloxacin, and tetracycline did not alter plasma concentrations of OCs. Antituberculous drugs (e.g., rifampin) were the only agents associated with OC failure and pregnancy. Based on the study results, these authors recommended that back-up contraception may not be necessary if OCs are used reliably during oral antibiotic use. Another review concurred with these data, but noted that individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in plasma concentrations of combined OC components and who appeared to ovulate; the agents most often associated with these changes were rifampin, tetracyclines, and penicillin derivatives. These authors concluded that because females most at risk for OC failure or noncompliance may not be easily identified and the true incidence of such events may be under-reported, and given the serious consequence of unwanted pregnancy, that recommending an additional method of contraception during short-term antibiotic use may be justified. During long-term antibiotic administration, the risk for drug interaction with OCs is less clear, but alternative or additional contraception may be advisable in selected circumstances. Data regarding progestin-only contraceptives or for newer combined contraceptive deliveries (e.g., patches, rings) are not available.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Sertraline: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and sertraline may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) The combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis may elevate the risk for an upper GI bleed. SSRIs may inhibit serotonin uptake by platelets, augmenting the antiplatelet effects of aspirin.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sitagliptin and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sodium Benzoate; Sodium Phenylacetate: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Early reports noted an increase in the excretion of tetracyclines during coadministration with sodium bicarbonate, and that the oral absorption of tetracyclines is reduced by sodium bicarbonate via increased gastric pH. However, conflicting data have been reported, and further study is needed. Two recent studies show no effect of oral sodium bicarbonate administration on tetracycline oral bioavailability. In one of these trials, coadministration with sodium bicarbonate was reported to have no effect on tetracycline urinary excretion, Cmax, or AUC. Until more information is available, avoid simultaneous administration of sodium bicarbonate and tetracyclines. When concurrent therapy is needed, stagger administration times by several hours to minimize the potential for interaction, and monitor for antimicrobial efficacy.
Sodium Ferric Gluconate Complex; Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate: (Moderate) Separate administration of tetracyclines and iron by 2 to 3 hours. Iron may decrease the oral bioavailability of tetracyclines.
Sodium Phosphate Monobasic Monohydrate; Sodium Phosphate Dibasic Anhydrous: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Sodium picosulfate; Magnesium oxide; Anhydrous citric acid: (Major) Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid may reduce efficacy of the bowel preparation as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite bis-(p-hydroxy-phenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane (BHPM) is mediated by colonic bacteria. If possible, avoid coadministration. Certain antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines and quinolones) may chelate with the magnesium in sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution. Therefore, these antibiotics should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after the administration of sodium picosulfate; magnesium oxide; anhydrous citric acid solution.
Sodium Sulfate; Magnesium Sulfate; Potassium Chloride: (Moderate) Administer oral magnesium-containing products at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after orally administered tetracyclines. Tetracycline absorption may be reduced as tetracycline antibiotics can chelate with divalent or trivalent cations.
Sodium Thiosulfate; Salicylic Acid: (Moderate) Concomitant use of salicylic acid with other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels (e.g., oral aspirin or other oral salicylates and other salicylate containing medications, such as sports injury creams) should be avoided. Concurrent use may result in excessive exposure to salicylic acid. Consider replacing aspirin therapy with an alternative non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is not salicylate based where appropriate.
Solifenacin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and solifenacin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Monitor renal function periodically during concomitant use of spironolactone with bismuth subsalicylate. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those receiving diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of spironolactone and bismuth subsalicylate may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor renal function periodically during concomitant use of spironolactone with bismuth subsalicylate. In persons who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those receiving diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of spironolactone and bismuth subsalicylate may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure; these effects are usually reversible.
Streptomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Succinylcholine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration.
Sucralfate: (Moderate) Sucralfate should be given 2 hours before or after the oral administration of tetracyclines. Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain aluminum salts, calcium salts, iron salts, magnesium salts, and/or zinc salts. Sucralfate, because it contains aluminum in its structure and due to its mechanism of action, can bind with tetracyclines in the GI tract, reducing the bioavailability of these agents.
sulfADIAZINE: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfamethoxazole; Trimethoprim, SMX-TMP, Cotrimoxazole: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
sulfaSALAzine: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonamides: (Minor) Due to high protein binding, salicylates could be displaced from binding sites, or could displace other highly protein-bound drugs such as sulfonamides. An enhanced effect of the displaced drug may occur.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant sulfonylurea and bismuth subsalicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Sulindac: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Sulopenem Etzadroxil; Probenecid: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of probenecid and salicylates is contraindicated. The uricosuric actions of probenecid are inhibited by salicylates. When probenecid is used to treat hyperuricemia or gout, do not administer with salicylates.
SUMAtriptan; Naproxen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of naproxen with bismuth subsalicylate due to an increased risk of gastrointestinal toxicity and renal impairment, with little or no increase in efficacy.
SUNItinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and sunitinib may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and tacrolimus may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Tacrolimus, in the absence of overt renal impairment, may adversely affect renal function. Care should be taken in using tacrolimus with other nephrotoxic drugs, such as salicylates.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and tamoxifen may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Tazarotene: (Moderate) The manufacturer states that tazarotene should be administered with caution in patients who are also taking drugs known to be photosensitizers, such as tetracyclines, as concomitant use may augment phototoxicity. Patients should take care and use proper techniques to limit sunlight and UV exposure of treated areas.
Telavancin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and telavancin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Minor) Concurrent or sequential use of telavancin with drugs that inhibit renal prostaglandins such as salicylates may lead to additive nephrotoxicity. Closely monitor renal function and adjust telavancin doses based on calculated creatinine clearance.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Salicylates can increase the risk of renal toxicity in patients receiving diuretics because salicylates inhibit renal prostaglandin synthesis, which can lead to fluid retention and increased peripheral vascular resistance.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Tenecteplase: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Renal impairment, which may include hypophosphatemia, has been reported with the use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with a majority of the cases occurring in patients who have underlying systemic or renal disease or who are concurrently taking nephrotoxic agents. Tenofovir should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent; patients receiving concomitant nephrotoxic agents, like salicylates should be carefully monitored for changes in serum creatinine and phosphorus.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of tetrabenazine and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Thalidomide: (Moderate) Thalidomide and other agents that cause peripheral neuropathy such as metronidazole should be used cautiously due to the potential for additive effects.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant thiazolidinedione and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of metronidazole and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of phenothiazines may produce additive effects.
Thrombin Inhibitors: (Moderate) An additive risk of bleeding may be seen in patients receiving salicylates (e.g., aspirin) in combination with thrombin inhibitors. In addition, large doses of salicylates (3 to 4 g/day or more) can cause hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may also increase bleeding risk when given with argatroban because of their potential to cause GI bleeding or inhibit platelet aggregation.
Thrombolytic Agents: (Moderate) Monitor for bleeding if the concomitant use of thrombolytics and a non-aspirin salicylate is necessary. For patients who received a thrombolytic for acute ischemic stroke, consider delaying the initiation of non-aspirin salicylate therapy for at least 24 hours following thrombolytic administration. Both medications interfere with hemostasis and concomitant use increases the risk for bleeding.
Timolol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of beta-blockers with bismuth subsalicylate and other salicylates may result in loss of antihypertensive activity due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins and thus, salt and water retention and decreased renal blood flow.
Tipranavir: (Major) Medications with significant alcohol content should not be ingested during therapy with metronidazole and should be avoided for 3 days after therapy is discontinued. The Aptivus brand of tipranavir capsules contain alcohol. Administration of Aptivus capsules to patients receiving or who have recently received metronidazole may result in disulfiram-like reactions. A disulfiram reaction would not be expected to occur with non-ethanol containing formulations.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Monitor blood glucose during concomitant incretin mimetic and salicylate use. Concomitant use may cause an increased blood glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia.
Tobramycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents like the aminoglycosides may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Tolmetin: (Major) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. The use of salicylates together with NSAIDs can also lead to additive GI toxicity.
Tolterodine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and tolterodine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of toremifene and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Salicylates may decrease the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive actions of diuretics, possibly through inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving loop diuretics and salicylates should be monitored for changes in the effectiveness of their diuretic therapy.
Trandolapril: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Aspirin, ASA may reduce the vasodilatory efficacy of ACE inhibitors by inhibiting the synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandins. This interaction has been documented primarily in heart failure patients. However, the established benefits of using aspirin in combination with an ACE inhibitor in patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction generally outweigh this concern. Patients receiving concurrent salicylates and ACE inhibitor therapy should be monitored for antihypertensive or vasodilatory efficacy; the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be adjusted if indicated based on clinical evaluation.
Trastuzumab; Hyaluronidase: (Minor) Salicylates, when given in large systemic doses, may render tissues partially resistant to the action of hyaluronidase. Patients receiving these medications may require larger amounts of hyaluronidase for equivalent dispersing effect.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and trazodone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding during concomitant trazodone and salicylate use due to increased risk for bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are coadministered with another anticoagulant.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of tretinoin and with other agents that may cause intracranial hypertension (ICH), such as tetracyclines. Both medications have been associated with this adverse effect and concomitant use may increase the risk. Retinoids, such as tretinoin, have been especially associated with ICH in pediatric patients.
Triamcinolone: (Moderate) Monitor for gastrointestinal toxicity during concurrent corticosteroid and salicylate use. Concomitant use increases the risk of GI bleeding. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of salicylates, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance.
Triamterene: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant triamterene and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Triclabendazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Trifluoperazine: (Moderate) Antidiarrheals decrease GI motility. Agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. The concomitant administration of phenothiazines may produce additive effects. (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of metronidazole and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Concurrent salicylate therapy can increase the free-fraction of valproic acid, causing possible valproic acid toxicity. Valproic acid levels should be monitored when these agents are used concomitantly.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure as well as for signs of worsening renal function and loss of diuretic efficacy, including antihypertensive effects, during concomitant thiazide diuretic and salicylate use. Salicylate use decreases glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and concomitant diuretic use may increase the risk of this reaction. Salicylates may diminish the effectiveness of diuretics due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention.
Vancomycin: (Minor) Due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by salicylates, concurrent use of salicylates and other nephrotoxic agents, such as vancomycin, may lead to additive nephrotoxicity.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and vardenafil may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Varicella Virus Vaccine, Live: (Major) No adverse events associated with the use of salicylates after varicella vaccination have been reported. However, the manufacturer of varicella virus vaccine live recommends the avoidance of salicylates or aspirin, ASA use for 6 weeks after vaccination. Reye's syndrome, which exclusively affects children under 15 years old, has been associated with aspirin use following active varicella infection. Vaccination with close clinical monitoring is recommended for children who require therapeutic aspirin, ASA therapy; according to the CDC the use of attenuated, live varicella virus vaccine is thought to present less risk than natural varicella disease to such children.
Vecuronium: (Moderate) Concomitant use of neuromuscular blockers and tetracyclines may prolong neuromuscular blockade. The use of a peripheral nerve stimulator is strongly recommended to evaluate the level of neuromuscular blockade, to assess the need for additional doses of neuromuscular blocker, and to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the dose with subsequent administration. (Minor) Caution is warranted with the coadministration of systemic metronidazole and vecuronium. Metronidazole may potentiate the effects of vecuronium.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Venlafaxine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and venlafaxine may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin, ASA or other salicylates which affect hemostasis. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking an SNRI with medications which impair platelet function and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verteporfin: (Moderate) Use caution if coadministration of verteporfin with tetracyclines is necessary due to the risk of increased photosensitivity. Verteporfin is a light-activated drug used in photodynamic therapy; all patients treated with verteporfin will be photosensitive. Concomitant use of other photosensitizing agents like tetracyclines may increase the risk of a photosensitivity reaction.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vilazodone concurrently with salicylates or other platelet inhibitors and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner. Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vilazodone due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving platelet inhibitors (e.g., aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors).
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Acidification of the urine may increase serum concentrations of salicylates by increasing tubular reabsorption of salicylates, however, this interaction is not likely to be clinically significant since the urine is normally acidic.
Vitamin D: (Moderate) Divalent or trivalent cations readily chelate with tetracycline antibiotics, forming insoluble compounds. The oral absorption of these antibiotics will be significantly reduced by other orally administered compounds that contain calcium salts, particularly if the time of administration is within 60 minutes of each other. Calcium salts and tetracyclines should not be administered within 1 to 2 hours of each other, although doxycycline chelates less with calcium than other tetracyclines.
Voclosporin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and voclosporin may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at three times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and clarithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Minor) Consider additional monitoring or alternative antimicrobial therapy for patients with infections in which clinical response is highly dependent upon the rapid, bactericidal activity of penicillins. Bacterostatic antibacterials like tetracyclines may antagonize the bactericidal effects of penicillins which may reduce their efficacy. The clinical relevance of this interaction is poorly defined and for many infections the benefits of combination therapy are likely to outweigh the potential risks.
Voriconazole: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and voriconazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vorinostat: (Moderate) Concomitant use of metronidazole and vorinostat may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Vortioxetine: (Moderate) Platelet aggregation may be impaired by vortioxetine due to platelet serotonin depletion, possibly increasing the risk of a bleeding complication (e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, ecchymoses, epistaxis, hematomas, petechiae, hemorrhage) in patients receiving aspirin or other salicylates. Bleeding events related to drugs that inhibit serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be instructed to monitor for signs and symptoms of bleeding while taking vortioxetine concurrently with aspirin products and to promptly report any bleeding events to the practitioner.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Coadministration of salicylates and warfarin may result in an increased risk of bleeding. Salicylates may displace warfarin from protein binding sites leading to increased anticoagulation effects. Hypoprothrombinemia, an additional risk factor for bleeding, also has been reported with salicylates. Non-acetylated salicylates do not appear to affect platelet aggregation in the same manner as aspirin and are associated with a lower risk of bleeding when given currently with warfarin. If salicylates and warfarin are coadministered, monitor the patient for signs or symptoms of bleeding. (Moderate) Monitor prothrombin time and INR and watch for signs of bleeding with concomitant use of systemic metronidazole and warfarin. Warfarin dose adjustments may be necessary. Metronidazole can potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin, resulting in prolongation of prothrombin time and increased risk of bleeding. (Moderate) Tetracyclines may increase the action of warfarin and other oral anticoagulants by either impairing prothrombin utilization or, possibly, decreasing production of vitamin K because of its antiinfective action on gut bacteria. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of bleeding. Additionally, increased monitoring of the INR, especially during initiation and upon discontinuation of the antibiotic, may be necessary.
Zidesamtinib: (Moderate) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and metronidazole may increase the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) in some patients. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Zinc Salts: (Major) Concurrent administration of oral zinc salts with oral tetracyclines can decrease the absorption of these antiinfectives and possibly interfere with their therapeutic response. This is a result of the formation of insoluble chelates between zinc and the antiinfective. Oral zinc supplements should be administered at least 6 hours before or 2 hours after administering tetracyclines.
Zinc: (Major) Concurrent administration of oral zinc salts with oral tetracyclines can decrease the absorption of these antiinfectives and possibly interfere with their therapeutic response. This is a result of the formation of insoluble chelates between zinc and the antiinfective. Oral zinc supplements should be administered at least 6 hours before or 2 hours after administering tetracyclines.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of metronidazole and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  This section discusses the safety profile of Helidac(R) (combination therapy including bismuth subsalicylate, metronidazole, and tetracycline) for the treatment of patients with H. pylori associated with duodenal ulcer disease. For more specific information regarding adverse effects of individual agents, refer to each separate drug monograph.The most common adverse reactions reported when bismuth subsalicylate (BSS), metronidazole (MTZ), and tetracycline (TCN) are administered concomitantly are primarily related to the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and are reversible. Frequent (>= 3%) adverse events reported during Helidac(R) therapy (BSS/MTZ/TCN) during 3 clinical trials (most patients also received acid-suppression therapy) included nausea/vomiting (nausea 12%, vomiting 1.5%), diarrhea (6.8%), abdominal pain (6.8%), and melena (3%). Taking Helidac(R) doses with food and adequate amounts of fluid may reduce GI irritation. Less frequent GI adverse events (incidence > 1%) of Helidac(R) therapy included: constipation (1.9%), anorexia (1.5%), dyspepsia (1.5%), tongue discoloration (1.5%), stool abnormality (1.1%), duodenal ulcer (1.1%), dysgeusia (taste perversion such as metallic taste) (1.1%), flatulence (1.1%), GI bleeding (1.1%), and anal discomfort (1.1%). Infrequent GI effects included: xerostomia, dysphagia, eructation, GI monilia, glossitis, GI obstruction, rectal hemorrhage, and stomatitis. Tetracycline is associated with potential for esophagitis or esophageal ulceration (GI obstruction < 1%); ingestion of adequate amounts of fluid, especially with the bedtime tetracycline dose, is recommended to reduce the risk of GI irritation. Tetracycline-induced esophagitis is characterized by sudden onset odynophagia, retrosternal pain, and dysphagia (< 1%). Risk factors include taking the medication without water and at night. Symptoms usually resolve within days to weeks after stopping the medication. Dysgeusia may result from the metronidazole component. Tongue discolorationa and other effects (blackened or furry tongue, glossitis) may occur due to the tetracycline or bismuth components. The BSS component may be associated with stool discoloration (dark brown or black) or constipation. Pancreatitis is rarely associated with metronidazole therapy, and generally is reversible following discontinuation of therapy.CNS adverse events reported during Helidac(R) clinical trials included asthenia/weakness (1.5%), headache (1.5%), dizziness (1.5%), insomnia (1.1%), and paresthesias (1.1%). Nervousness, somnolence, or drowsiness was reported in < 1% of patients. More serious central nervous system toxicity can occur during high-dose or prolonged metronidazole therapy, and may include ataxia, emotional lability, seizures, peripheral neuropathy (can be persistent), paresthesias, or rarely encephalopathy.Tooth disorders (< 1% during Helidac(R) therapy) may occur during tetracycline therapy, especially during tooth development and include permanent tooth discoloration and enamel hypoplasia. Helidac(R) therapy is not recommended for children (potential for altered tooth development) or women who are pregnant (potential for teratogenesis) or breast-feeding, due to the tetracycline component.Helidac(R) therapy was infrequently associated with dermatological reactions infrequently 1%; these included acne, ecchymosis, photosensitivity reaction, pruritus, and rash (unspecified). In addition, dermatological reactions associated with tetracycline therapy include discolored nails; and erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (aching joints and muscles; redness, blistering, peeling of the skin). Hypersensitivity may occur in some patients receiving metronidazole; symptoms include urticaria, rash, erythema, flushing, nasal congestion, fever, arthralgia (resembling serum sickness), and/or pruritus. Infrequent musculoskeletal effects (< 1%, irrespective of causality) during Helidac(R) therapy included: arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and tendonitis.Elevated hepatic enzymes (< 1% during Helidac(R) therapy), hepatitis, and hepatic failure have been observed in patients receiving large doses of tetracycline and in tetracycline-treated patients with renal impairment.Infrequent cardiovascular events occurred during Helidac(R) therapy (< 1%, without regard to causality) and included cerebral ischemia, chest pain, hypertension, and myocardial infarction.Metronidazole may cause mild leukopenia (neutropenia) and rare, reversible thrombocytopenia. Tetracycline-induced neutropenia and/or eosinophilia may occur, but generally is associated with long-term therapy.Genitourinary side effects of metronidazole are infrequent; however, dysuria, cystitis, polyuria, urinary incontinence, and a sense of pelvic pressure have been reported. Metronidazole can cause urine discoloration (darkened urine) in approximately one patient in every 100,000 treated. Although the pigment that is responsible for this phenomenon has not been positively identified, it is likely a metabolite of metronidazole and seems to have no clinical significance. Libido decrease and proctitis have also been rarely reported with metronidazole therapy.Other infrequent adverse effects (without regard to causality) occurring in the general body system during Helidac(R) therapy included: upper respiratory infection (2.3%), sinusitis (1.1%), and pain, unspecified (1.1%), flu syndrome (< 1%), infection (< 1%), malaise, neoplasm (< 1%), rhinitis (< 1%), and syncope (< 1%). Helidac(R) contains the oral antimicrobials: metronidazole and tetracycline. Systemic antimicrobial therapy may cause Candida overgrowth and candidal superinfection may occur and may produce oral candidiasis, furry tongue, glossitis, stomatitis, or vaginal candidiasis in females. If superinfection occurs, appropriate therapy should be instituted.Patients receiving metronidazole and drinking alcoholic beverages may experience disulfiram-like side effects that include nausea/vomiting, headache, flushing, and abdominal cramps. The taste of alcoholic beverages also can be altered during metronidazole use.Helidac(R) therapy contains tetracycline tablets. Photosensitivity, if apparent, can appear within minutes of taking the tetracycline if the patient is exposed to direct sunlight or UV light. Warning signs, including tingling and burning of the hands, feet, and nose, may indicate latent photosensitivity. If the drug is discontinued, symptoms are usually alleviated within 1—2 days. Sunscreens seem to provide only limited protection, and a severe response may necessitate treatment with corticosteroids or antihistamines.Helidac(R) therapy contains tetracycline tablets. Nephrotoxicity and azotemia can occur, but is usually a problem only for patients with renal impairment, in which the half-life of tetracycline is greatly increased. Use of tetracycline in patients with renal impairment may be associated with azotemia (due to anabolic effects of tetracycline), hyperphosphatemia, and acidosis. Helidac(R) is contraindicated for use in those with renal impairment. Fanconi syndrome has been associated with use of outdated tetracycline therapy, so shelf-life dates should be strictly adhered to. The mechanism may be related to accelerated deterioration of the antibiotic from inclusion of citric acid in the preparation.Helidac(R) therapy contains tetracycline tablets. Benign increased intracranial pressure (pseudotumor cerebri) can occur in adults during therapy with tetracycline and is usually reversible following discontinuation of the drug but may produce permanent sequelae. The usual clinical manifestations of pseudotumor cerebri are headache and blurred vision.Tinnitus and visual impairment have been reported during tetracycline therapy. Ocular adverse effects such as visual impairment and photophobia have been associated with metronidazole use. There may be a relationship between metronidazole therapy and optic neuritis. Conjunctivitis (< 1%) has been reported during Helidac(R) therapy.Bismuth subsalicylate is hydrolyzed by gastric acid to produce bismuth oxychloride and salicylic acid. Salicylic acid is absorbed systemically. Excessive use of bismuth subsalicylate or use with other salicylate (e.g., aspirin) containing products can produce symptoms of salicylate toxicity, especially in young children, elderly, or patients with renal impairment. Symptoms of salicylate toxicity include abdominal pain, diaphoresis, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hearing loss, polydipsia, nausea/vomiting, and tinnitus.Metronidazole is mutagenic in vitro and carcinogenic in rodents, but these concerns have not been shown in humans. Crohn's disease patients are known to have an increased incidence of secondary malignancy, including GI and certain extraintestinal cancers. There have been some reports in the medical literature of breast and colon cancer in Crohn's disease patients who have been treated with metronidazole systemically at high doses for extended periods of time. A cause and effect relationship has not been established.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    This section discusses the safety profile of Helidac(R) (combination therapy including bismuth subsalicylate, metronidazole, and tetracycline) for the treatment of patients with H. pylori associated with duodenal ulcer disease. For more specific information regarding adverse effects of individual agents, refer to each separate drug monograph.
Metronidazole is mutagenic in vitro and carcinogenic in rodents, but these concerns have not been shown in humans. Crohn's disease patients are known to have an increased incidence of secondary malignancy, including GI and certain extraintestinal cancers. There have been some reports in the medical literature of breast and colon cancer in Crohn's disease patients who have been treated with metronidazole systemically at high doses for extended periods of time. A cause and effect relationship has not been established.
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, dysphagia, eructation, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, flatulence, GI bleeding, GI obstruction, glossitis, melena, metallic taste, nausea, odynophagia, pancreatitis, stomatitis, stool discoloration, tongue discoloration, vomiting, xerostomia
    General Information
    The most common adverse reactions reported when bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline are administered concomitantly are primarily related to the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and are reversible. Adverse events reported during therapy during 3 clinical trials (most patients also received acid-suppression therapy) included nausea (12%), diarrhea (6.8%), abdominal pain (6.8%), melena (3%), constipation (1.9%), anorexia (1.5%), dyspepsia (1.5%), tongue discoloration (1.5%), vomiting (1.5%), stool abnormality/stool discoloration (1.1%), duodenal ulcer (1.1%), dysgeusia (taste perversion such as metallic taste) (1.1%), flatulence (1.1%), GI bleeding (1.1%), and anal discomfort (1.1%). Infrequent (less than 1%) GI effects included xerostomia, dysphagia, eructation, glossitis, GI obstruction, rectal hemorrhage, and stomatitis. Administering with food and adequate amounts of fluid may reduce GI irritation. Tetracycline is associated with the potential for esophagitis or esophageal ulceration (GI obstruction less than 1%); ingestion of adequate amounts of fluid, especially with the bedtime tetracycline dose, is recommended to reduce the risk of GI irritation. Tetracycline-induced esophagitis is characterized by sudden onset odynophagia, retrosternal pain, and dysphagia (less than 1%). Risk factors include taking the medication without water and at night. Symptoms usually resolve within days to weeks after stopping the medication. Dysgeusia may result from the metronidazole component. Pancreatitis is also associated with metronidazole therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysgeusia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dysphagia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      esophageal ulceration
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      esophagitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      flatulence
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI bleeding
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      GI obstruction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      glossitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      melena
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      metallic taste
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      odynophagia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pancreatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      stool discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tongue discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      xerostomia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      eructation
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    aseptic meningitis, asthenia, ataxia, confusion, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dysarthria, encephalopathy, headache, insomnia, irritability, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, seizures, syncope, vertigo, weakness
    General Information
    CNS adverse events reported during bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline clinical trials included asthenia (1.5%), headache (1.5%), dizziness (1.5%), insomnia (1.1%), and paresthesias (1.1%). Nervousness, syncope,  somnolence, or drowsiness was reported in < 1% of patients. More serious central nervous system toxicity can occur during high-dose or prolonged metronidazole therapy, and may include ataxia, seizures, optic and peripheral neuropathy (can be persistent), paresthesias, aseptic meningitis, or rarely encephalopathy. Other adverse events associated with metronidazole include vertigo, incoordination, confusion, dysarthria, irritability, depression, and weakness.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ataxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dizziness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      drowsiness
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      encephalopathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      insomnia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      paresthesias
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      seizures
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      weakness
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      aseptic meningitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      confusion
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      depression
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dysarthria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      irritability
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      vertigo
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      syncope
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
    Headline
    enamel hypoplasia, tooth discoloration
    General Information
    Tooth disorders (< 1% during bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline therapy) may occur during tetracycline therapy, especially during tooth development and include permanent tooth discoloration and enamel hypoplasia. Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline therapy is not recommended for children (potential for altered tooth development) or women who are pregnant or breast-feeding, due to the tetracycline component.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      enamel hypoplasia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tooth discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), ecchymosis, erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, fever, fixed drug eruption, flushing, lupus-like symptoms, maculopapular rash, nail discoloration, nasal congestion, onycholysis, pericarditis, photosensitivity, pruritus, purpura, rash, serum sickness, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria
    General Information
    Dermatologic adverse reactions reported in less than 1% of subjects receiving bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline during clinical trials include acne vulgaris, ecchymosis, pruritus, and rash. Severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), have been reported with metronidazole and tetracycline; acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) has been reported with metronidazole. Symptoms can be serious and potentially life-threatening. Fixed drug eruption has also occurred with tetracycline and has been associated with worsening severity upon subsequent administration, including generalized bullous fixed drug eruption. Discontinue bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline immediately if severe skin reactions occur and institute appropriate therapy. Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines. Advise individuals receiving bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline to avoid exposure to the sun or sun lamps. Discontinue bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline treatment at the first evidence of skin erythema. Other dermatologic adverse reactions reported with metronidazole include erythematous rash and pruritus; exfoliative dermatitis, erythematous and maculopapular rash, erythema multiforme, onycholysis, and nail discoloration have been reported with tetracycline. Hypersensitivity reactions or immune system disorders reported with metronidazole include dryness of the mouth, vagina, or vulva, erythematous rash, fever, flushing, nasal congestion, and urticaria; anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema, Henoch-Schonlein purpura, pericarditis, exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus-like symptoms), serum sickness-like reactions, and urticaria have been reported with tetracycline.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      onycholysis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      angioedema
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      Stevens-Johnson syndrome
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      nasal congestion
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      toxic epidermal necrolysis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ecchymosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      flushing
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema multiforme
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      serum sickness
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      anaphylactoid reactions
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      fever
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      erythema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      exfoliative dermatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      fixed drug eruption
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      photosensitivity
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nail discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      purpura
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      pericarditis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lupus-like symptoms
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatic failure, hepatotoxicity
    General Information
    Severe irreversible hepatotoxicity and acute hepatic failure have been reported in patients with Cockayne syndrome that have been treated with systemic metronidazole. Some of these cases have been fatal with rapid onset after therapy initiation; latency from drug start to signs of liver failure have been as short as 2 days. Elevated hepatic enzymes (less than 1% during bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole, tetracycline therapy), hepatotoxicity, and hepatic failure have been observed in patients receiving tetracycline.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hepatic failure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hepatotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, myocardial infarction, QT prolongation, ST-T wave changes
    General Information
    Infrequent cardiovascular events occurred during bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline therapy (less than 1%) and included cerebral ischemia, chest pain (unspecified), hypertension, and myocardial infarction. QT prolongation and ST-T wave changes (flattening of the T-wave) have been reported with the use of metronidazole.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myocardial infarction
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ST-T wave changes
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)
    General Information
    Metronidazole may cause mild leukopenia (neutropenia) and rare, reversible thrombocytopenia. Tetracycline-induced neutropenia and/or eosinophilia may occur, but generally is associated with long-term therapy. Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) have been reported with tetracycline therapy. Monitor patients that are receiving bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      eosinophilia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      hemolytic anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    cystitis, dyspareunia, dysuria, libido decrease, polyuria, proctitis, urinary incontinence, urine discoloration
    General Information
    Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline contains metronidazole. Genitourinary side effects of metronidazole are infrequent; however, dysuria, cystitis, polyuria, urinary incontinence, darkened urine (urine discoloration), and a sense of pelvic pressure have been reported. Libido decrease, dyspareunia, and proctitis have also been rarely reported with metronidazole therapy.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cystitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      dysuria
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      libido decrease
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      polyuria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      proctitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urinary incontinence
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      urine discoloration
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspareunia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    malaise, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    General adverse effects occurring during bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline therapy included sinusitis (1.1%), and pain, unspecified (1.1%), flu syndrome (less than 1%), malaise (less than 1%), neoplasm (less than 1%), and rhinitis (less than 1%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      malaise
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    azotemia, hyperphosphatemia
    General Information
    Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline therapy contains tetracycline tablets. Nephrotoxicity and azotemia can occur, but is usually a problem only for patients with renal impairment, in which the half-life of tetracycline is greatly increased. Use of tetracycline in patients with renal impairment may be associated with azotemia (due to anabolic effects of tetracycline), hyperphosphatemia, and acidosis. Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline is contraindicated for use in those with renal impairment.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      azotemia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hyperphosphatemia
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    blurred vision, diplopia, increased intracranial pressure, papilledema, pseudotumor cerebri
    General Information
    Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline therapy contains tetracycline tablets. Benign increased intracranial pressure (pseudotumor cerebri) can occur in adults during therapy with tetracycline and is usually reversible following discontinuation of the drug but may produce permanent sequelae. The usual clinical manifestations of pseudotumor cerebri are headache, blurred vision, diplopia, and vision loss. Papilledema can be found on fundoscopy. Women of childbearing age who are overweight or have a history of intracranial hypertension are at greater risk. Bulging fontanels in infants have also been reported.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      increased intracranial pressure
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      pseudotumor cerebri
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diplopia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      papilledema
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    conjunctivitis, hearing loss, tinnitus
    General Information
    Conjunctivitis (less than 1%) has been reported during bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline therapy. Tinnitus, hearing impairment, and hearing loss have been reported with metronidazole use. Tinnitus has also been reported during treatment with tetracycline.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      conjunctivitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      tinnitus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      hearing loss
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    new primary malignancy
    General Information
    Although not reported in clinical trials with bismuth subsalicylate potassium; metronidazole; tetracycline, metronidazole is mutagenic in vitro and carcinogenic in rodents. Crohn's disease patients are known to have an increased incidence of new primary malignancy, including GI and certain extraintestinal cancers. There have been some reports in the medical literature of breast and colon cancer in Crohn's disease patients who have been treated with metronidazole systemically at high doses for extended periods of time. A cause and effect relationship has not been established.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      new primary malignancy
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    C. difficile-associated diarrhea, candidiasis, infection, pseudomembranous colitis, superinfection
    General Information
    Microbial overgrowth and superinfection can occur with antibiotic use. C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) or pseudomembranous colitis has been reported for nearly all systemic antibacterial drugs, including tetracycline, which may range in severity from mild to life-threatening. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile. If pseudomembranous colitis is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibacterial therapy not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Institute appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, C. difficile-directed antibacterial therapy, and surgical evaluation as clinically appropriate. Careful medical history is necessary as pseudomembranous colitis has been reported to occur over 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents. Other infection-related adverse events reported with bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline include unspecified infection (less than 1%), upper respiratory infection (2.3%), urinary tract infection (less than 1%), oral candidiasis, furry tongue, glossitis, stomatitis, and GI candidiasis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      superinfection
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      pseudomembranous colitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      candidiasis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      C. difficile-associated diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
    Headline
    tendinitis
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal adverse events reported with bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials include arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and tendinitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      tendinitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
    Headline
    diagnostic test interference, laboratory test interference
    General Information
    Administration of bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline may result in laboratory test interference. Antimicrobials and bismuth are known to suppress H. pylori; thus, ingestion of these preparations within 4 weeks of performing diagnostic tests for H. pylori may lead to false negative results. At a minimum, instruct the patient to avoid the use of bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline for at least 4 weeks prior to the test. Metronidazole therapy may also cause laboratory test interference with certain clinical chemistry assays, including AST, ALT, LDH, triglycerides, and hexokinase-based glucose measurements, with reported values as low as zero. This interference has been observed in assays utilizing enzymatic coupling reactions linked to oxidation-reduction of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+/NADH). The mechanism is attributed to spectral overlap between metronidazole (322 nm) and NADH (340 nm) at pH 7, resulting in increased ultraviolet absorbance at 340 nm and falsely decreased values. Bismuth preparations may result in diagnostic test interference as they may absorb x-rays and can interfere with radiographic diagnostic procedures of the gastrointestinal tract. Bismuth may also cause temporary and harmless darkening of the stool; however, this does not interfere with standard fecal occult blood testing.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      diagnostic test interference
      Severity
      Moderate

Description
  Text
  Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline is a combination of a bismuth salt, nitroimidazole antibacterial, and tetracycline antibacterial indicated for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or history of) to eradicate H. pylori. Although it was originally approved for use with an H2-blocker, use with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) has since been associated with higher H. pylori eradication rates.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Bismuth subsalicylate; metronidazole; tetracycline has demonstrated in vitro activity against most susceptible strains of Helicobacter pylori. The use of combination therapy is necessary for successful eradication of H.pylori and to avoid the development of metronidazole resistance. Adjunctive acid-suppressive therapy with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) is also required concurrently for ulcer healing and improved eradication of H. pylori.
Bismuth subsalicylate: The antibacterial action of bismuth salts is not well understood. The pharmacologic actions of bismuth salts against H. pylori can be attributed specifically to bismuth, with changes in H. pylori seen soon after drug administration. Deposits believed to be bismuth complexes appear on the external cell surface and beneath the cell wall of the organism. The loss of adherence property loosens the organism from the antral epithelium. Distortion and vacuolization of the bacterial cell and its contents completes the process. It has been shown in vitro that bismuth can lyse H. pylori within 30 to 90 minutes. The addition of certain antimicrobial agents produces a synergistic effect, and studies have demonstrated the efficacy of combination therapy in treating gastric and duodenal ulcers by suppressing H. pylori. Ulcer healing also may depend on the cytoprotective effect of bismuth subsalicylate. Bismuth compounds might stimulate the production of prostaglandins, alter GI mucus, and/or modulate the immune response.
Metronidazole: Un-ionized metronidazole is readily taken up by passive diffusion and activated in the cytoplasm of susceptible anaerobic organisms and cells. Its selectivity for anaerobic bacteria is a result of the ability of these organisms to reduce metronidazole to its active form intracellularly. This process includes intracellular electron transport proteins such as ferredoxin, transfer of an electron to the nitro group of the metronidazole, and formation of a short-lived nitroso free radical. The electron transport proteins necessary for this reaction are found only in anaerobic bacteria. Due to the alteration of the metronidazole molecule, a concentration gradient is created and maintained which promotes the drug's intracellular transport. Reduced metronidazole and free radicals can interact with DNA, which leads to inhibition of DNA synthesis and DNA degradation. The effects on DNA eventually result in bacterial cell death. Metronidazole is equally effective against dividing and nondividing cells. The precise mechanism of action is unclear.
Tetracycline: Tetracycline is bacteriostatic and binds to the 30S ribosomal subunit in the bacterial cell to prevent protein synthesis.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    Bismuth subsalicylate (BSS): Hydrolysis of bismuth subsalicylate occurs in the stomach, producing bismuth oxychloride and salicylic acid. Absorption of bismuth is negligible when BSS is taken at recommended doses. 
Metronidazole (MTZ): Oral metronidazole is well-absorbed, with a bioavailability >= 90%; peak concentrations occur within 1—3 hours. Food decreases the rate, but not the extent, of absorption.
Tetracycline (TCN): The oral bioavailability of tetracycline is about 75—77% in the fasting state. Absorption takes place mainly in the stomach and in the upper intestine. As the dosage is increased, the percentage of drug absorbed decreases. Divalent and trivalent cations which are present in antacids and dairy products reduce the absorption of tetracycline via chelation (see Drug Interactions).
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Metronidazole (MTZ): Patients with severe hepatic disease metabolize metronidazole slowly, with resultant plasma accumulation of metronidazole and its metabolites. Those with significant hepatic disease may require dosage alterations.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Metronidazole (MTZ): The presence of decreased renal function does not alter pharmacokinetic parameters. The drug is removed by hemodialysis, but not by peritoneal dialysis.
Tetracycline (TCN): The serum half-life is greatly increased in patients with severely impaired renal function.
    Name
    Elderly
    Description
    Metronidazole (MTZ): Elderly patients may have reduced metabolism of metronidazole.
  Text
  The components of Helidac therapy (BSS chewable tablets, MTZ tablets, and TCN capsules) are administered orally. The pharmacokinetics of the individual drugs when coadministered have not been studied. Helidac clinical trials included the concurrent administration of tetracycline and bismuth subsalicylate. Data for local (gastric) or systemic concentrations of these agents when used in combination or with acid-suppressive therapy are lacking. The pharmacokinetic data listed are for the individual agents.
Bismuth subsalicylate (BSS): Excretion of BSS is mainly fecal. Insoluble bismuth salts are formed in the small intestine by reaction with bicarbonate and phosphate anions. The formation of bismuth sulfide can occur in the colon; this highly insoluble black salt produces dark stools. The salicylic acid component is rapidly and almost completely (about 90%) absorbed, and is highly protein-bound. Due to nonlinear pharmacokinetics, accumulation of salicylic acid is possible with repetitive dosing or with concurrent administration of other salicylates (e.g., aspirin). Salicylic acid excretion is primarily renal, mostly as free salicylic acid and conjugated metabolites.
Metronidazole (MTZ): Metronidazole is widely distributed into most body tissues and fluids, including the gastrointestinal tract. Protein binding of the drug is about 10%. CSF concentrations of metronidazole are approximately 43% of plasma concentrations. Metronidazole crosses the placenta and enters breast milk. A significant amount of metronidazole (30—60%) is metabolized in the liver by hydroxylation, oxidation, and glucuronide conjugation. The major metabolite is 2-hydroxymethyl metronidazole, which has some antibacterial and antiprotozoal activity. The major route of elimination of metronidazole and its metabolites is via the urine (60—80% of the dose), with fecal excretion accounting for 6—15% of the dose. The mean elimination half-life of metronidazole is roughly 8 hours. 
Tetracycline (TCN): Tetracycline is widely distributed into body fluids, including CSF, and tends to concentrate in bone, liver, spleen, and teeth. The drug crosses the placenta and is distributed into breast milk. TCN is about 65% bound to plasma proteins and does not appear to undergo hepatic metabolism; however, it does undergo some enterohepatic circulation with biliary/fecal excretion (minor route). Some fecal excretion is due to incomplete gastrointestinal absorption. The primary excretion route for TCN is renal (about 60%). The serum half-life is between 6—12 hours in adults with normal renal function.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Administer orally at mealtimes and at bedtime; each complete dose includes 4 pills.
The metronidazole tablet and the tetracycline capsule should be taken with a full glass (roughly 8 ounces) of water, especially with the bedtime dose of tetracycline, to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration.
    Name
    Oral Administration
    Description
    Dairy products (e.g., milk) interfere with absorption of tetracycline; administer at least one hour before or two hours after any dairy products.
Divalent and trivalent cations significantly affect tetracycline absorption; do not administer with or within 4 hours of drugs which impair tetracycline absorption (see Drug Interactions).

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    2,100 mg/day bismuth subsalicylate; 1,000 mg/day metronidazole; 2,000 mg/day tetracycline PO.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    2,100 mg/day bismuth subsalicylate; 1,000 mg/day metronidazole; 2,000 mg/day tetracycline PO.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A or B): Use with caution.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C): Use not recommended.
  Renal Impairment
  Use is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment.
