=== Apalutamide — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5013)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Apalutamide is an androgen receptor inhibitor approved for the treatment of patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 240 mg by mouth once daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): gi perforation, weight loss, edema, penile edema, peripheral edema, anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Use apalutamide with caution in patients with a history of seizures, brain injury, stroke, or brain tumors.

APALUTAMIDE

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

ERLEADA

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of prostate cancer

For the treatment of nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer
Oral dosage
Adult men


240 mg orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients should concurrently receive treatment with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analog or have had a bilateral orchiectomy. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with apalutamide significantly improved the primary endpoint of metastasis-free survival compared with placebo (40.51 months vs. 16.2 months) in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, phase 3 trial (SPARTAN); results were consistent across subgroups (PSA doubling time, prior use of bone-sparing agent, and locoregional disease). PSA levels were reduced to undetectable levels in 30% of patients who received apalutamide plus ADT compared to no patients (0%) taking ADT alone. Additionally, apalutamide significantly improved time to metastasis (40.51 months vs. 16.59 months) and progression-free survival (40.51 months vs. 14.72 months). At a median follow-up time of 50.4 months, the median overall survival time was significantly prolonged patients who received apalutamide arm compared with placebo (73.9 months vs. 59.9 months). After this study was unblinded; 19% of patients without disease progression in the placebo arm crossed-over to the apalutamide arm.


For the treatment of metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer
Oral dosage
Adult men


240 mg orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients should concurrently receive treatment with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analog or have had a bilateral orchiectomy. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. After a median follow-up of 44 months, treatment with apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) significantly improved overall survival compared with placebo plus ADT in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer or relapsed metastatic disease after an initial diagnosis of localized disease (not reached vs. 52.2 months) in a randomized, double-blind, phase 3 trial (TITAN); this improvement remained significant after accounting for 39.5% crossover. PSA levels were reduced to undetectable levels in 68% of patients who received apalutamide plus ADT compared to 32% of patients taking ADT alone. Second progression-free survival (not reached vs. 44 months) and time to castrate resistance (not reached vs. 11.4 months) were also significantly delayed in the apalutamide arm. At the interim analysis (median follow-up of 22.7 months), median radiographic progression-free survival could not be estimated in the apalutamide arm and was 22.1 months in the placebo arm.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

activities requiring coordination and concentration, brain injury, brain tumor, driving or operating machinery, seizures, stroke


Use apalutamide with caution in patients with a history of seizures, brain injury, stroke, or brain tumors. Seizures have occurred in patients treated with apalutamide; it is unknown whether antiepileptic medications will prevent seizures associated with apalutamide. Patients should be advised of the risk of developing a seizure and of engaging in any activity where sudden loss of consciousness could cause harm to themselves or others during apalutamide treatment (e.g., driving or operating machinery or performing activities requiring coordination and concentration). Patients with a history of seizures, predisposing factors for seizures, or receiving drugs known to decrease the seizure threshold or to induce seizures were excluded from clinical trials. There is no clinical experience of re-administration of apalutamide to patients who have experienced a seizure. Permanently discontinue apalutamide if a seizure occurs.


diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, hypertension


Optimize management of cardiovascular risk factors including hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or hyperlipidemia in patients treated with apalutamide. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of ischemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disorders. Cerebrovascular and ischemic cardiovascular events occurred in patients receiving apalutamide. Patients with history of unstable angina, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, stroke, or transient ischemic attack within six months of randomization were excluded from the clinical trials.


pulmonary disease


Use apalutamide with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with apalutamide. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt apalutamide therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.


geriatric


Geriatric patients may be at increased risk for apalutamide-related adverse reactions, including falls. In 1,073 patients who received apalutamide, grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions occurred in 41% of patients aged 65 to 74 years and 49% of patients aged 75 years and older compared with 39% of patients younger than 65 years of age. Falls were reported in 10% and 19% of patients aged 65 to 74 years and 75 years and older, respectively, compared with 8% of patients younger than 65 years of age.


pregnancy


Apalutamide can cause fetal harm and loss of pregnancy, based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action. There are no available data on apalutamide in pregnant individuals to inform a drug-associated risk. In animal studies, fetal abnormalities (e.g., decreased fetal anogenital distance, misshapen pituitary gland, and skeletal variations including unossified phalanges, supernumerary short thoracolumbar ribs, and small, incomplete ossification and/or misshapen hyoid bone) and embryo-fetal lethality (resorptions) were observed at exposures of 2 to 6 times the human clinical exposure (based on AUC) at the recommended dose.


Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Reduce the dose of apalutamide for patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) due to increased exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; dosage adjustments are not necessary for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A or B). Data are not available for patients with hepatic failure.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, reproductive risk


Counsel people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with apalutamide. Apalutamide can cause fetal harm. Because of the potential for male-mediated teratogenicity, advise people who can cause pregnancy in others to use contraception while taking apalutamide and for 3 months after the last dose. Based on animal data, apalutamide may cause male infertility.


breast-feeding


Avoid the use of apalutamide during breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of apalutamide or its metabolites in human milk, their effect on the breastfed child, or their effect on milk production.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Apalutamide can cause fetal harm and loss of pregnancy, based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action. There are no available data on apalutamide in pregnant individuals to inform a drug-associated risk. In animal studies, fetal abnormalities (e.g., decreased fetal anogenital distance, misshapen pituitary gland, and skeletal variations including unossified phalanges, supernumerary short thoracolumbar ribs, and small, incomplete ossification and/or misshapen hyoid bone) and embryo-fetal lethality (resorptions) were observed at exposures of 2 to 6 times the human clinical exposure (based on AUC) at the recommended dose.


Interactions

Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with apalutamide; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Abemaciclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with abemaciclib due to decreased exposure to abemaciclib and its active metabolites, which may lead to reduced efficacy. Consider alternative treatments. Abemaciclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the relative potency adjusted unbound AUC of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites (M2, M18, and M20) by approximately 70% in healthy subjects.
Abiraterone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abiraterone with apalutamide due to decreased abiraterone exposure. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the frequency of abiraterone administration to twice daily; reduce the frequency to once daily when apalutamide is discontinued. Abiraterone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased abiraterone exposure by 55%.
Abrocitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abrocitinib with apalutamide as the combined exposure of abrocitinib and its 2 active metabolites may be decreased, resulting in reduced therapeutic effect. Abrocitinib is a CYP2C19 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP2C19 inducer.
Acalabrutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of acalabrutinib and apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of acalabrutinib. If coadministration cannot be avoided, increase the acalabrutinib dose to 200 mg PO twice daily. Acalabrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In healthy subjects, the Cmax and AUC values of acalabrutinib were decreased by 68% and 77%, respectively, when acalabrutinib was coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer for 9 days.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with apalutamide can decrease dihydrocodeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased dihydromorphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of dihydrocodeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of dihydrocodeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of dihydrocodeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of dihydrocodeine.
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with apalutamide can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acoramidis: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of acoramidis and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased acoramidis exposure which may reduce its efficacy.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of adagrasib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased adagrasib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additionally, the exposure of apalutamide may also be increased. Adagrasib is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor; apalutamide is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced adagrasib exposure by more than 66%. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the apalutamide AUC by 51%. The exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Afatinib: (Major) Increase the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg as tolerated if the concomitant use with apalutamide is necessary; resume the previous dose of afatinib 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of apalutamide. Afatinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and apalutamide is a weak P-gp inducer; coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of afatinib. Pre-treatment with another strong P-gp inducer decreased afatinib exposure by 34%.
Aficamten: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in aficamten efficacy during concomitant use of aficamten and apalutamide; increase the aficamten dosage as appropriate based on response. If apalutamide is discontinued, reduce the aficamten dosage by approximately half: 20 mg to 10 mg, 15 mg to 5 mg, 10 mg to 5 mg, or continue 5 mg. Concomitant use may decrease aficamten exposure. Aficamten is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced aficamten overall exposure by 51%.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer like apalutamide with alfentanil, a CYP3A4 substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with apalutamide due to decreased exposure to alpelisib which could decrease efficacy. Alpelisib is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
ALPRAZolam: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of alprazolam and signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Alprazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease alprazolam concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Amiodarone: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in amiodarone efficacy during concomitant use of amiodarone and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease amiodarone exposure. Amiodarone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of atorvastatin if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased atorvastatin exposure by 80% if the doses were separated, but increased the exposure of atorvastatin by 30% with simultaneous administration.
amLODIPine; Benazepril: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Celecoxib: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of celecoxib if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; a celecoxib dosage adjustment may be necessary. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of celecoxib.
amLODIPine; Olmesartan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apalutamide with omeprazole as omeprazole plasma concentrations may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of both CYP3A and CYP2C19. Coadministration with apalutamide has been observed to decrease the overall exposure of omeprazole by 85%. (Major) Consider alternatives to clarithromycin if treatment with apalutamide is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes will decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Exposure to apalutamide may also be increased. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with rifabutin. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Apixaban: (Major) Avoid the concomitant administration of apixaban and drugs that are combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as apalutamide. Concomitant use of apixaban and apalutamide may result in decreased exposure to apixaban and an increase in the risk of stroke.
Apremilast: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apremilast with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of apremilast. Apremilast is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the single-dose apremilast AUC and Cmax by 72% and 43%, respectively.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of apalutamide with aprepitant, fosaprepitant due to substantially decreased exposure of aprepitant. After administration, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant; therefore, a similar interaction may be expected. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and aprepitant is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the AUC of aprepitant by approximately 11-fold and decreased the mean terminal half-life by 3-fold.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and apalutamide vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For aripiprazole oral dosage forms, double the usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks. For extended-release aripiprazole injections administered monthly (Abilify Maintena) and every 2 months (Abilify Asimtufii), avoid concomitant use. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. (Major) Recommendations for managing aripiprazole and apalutamide vary by aripiprazole dosage form. For extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada), increase the 441 mg dose to 662 mg; no adjustments are necessary for other dosages. For fixed dose extended-release aripiprazole lauroxil injections (Aristada Initio), avoid concomitant use because the dose cannot be modified. Concomitant use may decrease aripiprazole exposure and reduce efficacy. Aripiprazole is CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of apalutamide and artemether is contraindicated. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and artemether is a substrate of this isoenzyme; therefore, coadministration may lead to decreased artemether concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the AUC of artemether and dihydroartemisinin (metabolite of artemether) by 89% and 85%, respectively. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of apalutamide and lumefantrine is contraindicated due to the risk of decreased lumefantrine concentrations and possible reduction in antimalarial activity. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and lumefantrine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the AUC of lumefantrine by 68%.
Asciminib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in asciminib efficacy during concomitant use of asciminib and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease asciminib exposure. Asciminib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced asciminib overall exposure by 34%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP2C19 inducer. Coadministration could decrease exposure to carisoprodol and increase exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Aspirin, ASA; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apalutamide with omeprazole as omeprazole plasma concentrations may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of both CYP3A and CYP2C19. Coadministration with apalutamide has been observed to decrease the overall exposure of omeprazole by 85%.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Contraindicated) Atazanavir, with or without ritonavir, is contraindicated for use with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of atazanavir, which may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer, the Cmax of atazanavir was reduced by 53%, the AUC by 72%, and the Cmin by 98%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Contraindicated) Atazanavir, with or without ritonavir, is contraindicated for use with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of atazanavir, which may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate. When coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer, the Cmax of atazanavir was reduced by 53%, the AUC by 72%, and the Cmin by 98%. (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. In addition, there is a potential for increased apalutamide exposure. If these drugs are used together, monitor for an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Apalutamide is a substrate and strong inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively. The steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Atogepant: (Major) Avoid use of atogepant and apalutamide when atogepant is used for chronic migraine. Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with apalutamide is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer resulted in a 60% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 30% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of atorvastatin if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased atorvastatin exposure by 80% if the doses were separated, but increased the exposure of atorvastatin by 30% with simultaneous administration.
Atrasentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of atrasentan and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease atrasentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Atrasentan is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced atrasentan trough by 90%.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avacopan and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased avacopan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Avacopan is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased avacopan overall exposure by 93%.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with apalutamide is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil was not evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Avapritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Avutometinib; Defactinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of defactinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease defactinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Defactinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced defactinib overall exposure by 87%.
Axitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of axitinib with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased efficacy of axitinib. Selection of a concomitant medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended. Axitinib is a CYP3A4/5 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/5 inducer significantly decreased the plasma exposure of axitinib in healthy volunteers.
Baxdrostat: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in baxdrostat efficacy during concomitant use with apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease baxdrostat exposure. Baxdrostat is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a CYP3A inducer.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with bedaquiline due to decreased plasma exposure to bedaquiline. Bedaquiline is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased bedaquiline exposure by 52%.
Belumosudil: (Major) Increase the dosage of belumosudil to 200 mg PO twice daily when coadministered with apalutamide. Belumosudil is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer; concomitant use may result in decreased belumosudil exposure and reduced belumosudil efficacy. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased belumosudil exposure by 72% in healthy subjects.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Concurrent use of benzhydrocodone with apalutamide may decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy, and potentially lead to a withdrawal syndrome in those with physical dependence to opioid agonists. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the benzhydrocodone dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of apalutamide may increase the risk of increased opioid-related adverse reactions, such as fatal respiratory depression. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a benzhydrocodone dosage reduction and monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug of hydrocodone. Apalutamide is an inducer of CYP3A4, an isoenzyme partially responsible for the metabolism of hydrocodone.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of berotralstat with apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease berotralstat exposure, leading to reduced efficacy. Berotralstat is a P-gp substrate and apalutamide is a P-gp inducer.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in bexagliflozin efficacy during concomitant use of bexagliflozin and apalutamide and adjust therapy as appropriate. Concomitant use may decrease bexagliflozin exposure. Bexagliflozin is a UGT substrate and apalutamide is a UGT inducer.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Concomitant use of bictegravir and apalutamide may result in decreased bictegravir plasma concentrations, which may result in the loss of therapeutic efficacy and development of resistance. Bictegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and UGT1A1. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer as well as a UGT inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and apalutamide is a P-gp and BCRP inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and apalutamide is contraindicated due to the risk for reduced lenacapavir exposure, which may lead to loss of therapeutic efficacy and development of resistance. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with apalutamide is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day apalutamide is initiated, which should be at least 2 days after lenacapavir initiation, a supplemental dose of 927 mg subcutaneously and 600 mg orally should be given (Step 1). The following day, an additional oral dose of 600 mg should be administered (Step 2). If apalutamide is continued for longer than 6 months, this 2-step supplemental dosing regimen must be repeated every 6 months. After discontinuation of apalutamide, the standard 6-month injection schedule for lenacapavir should be resumed. Recommendations are not available for those already on apalutamide at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 84%. (Moderate) Concomitant use of bictegravir and apalutamide may result in decreased bictegravir plasma concentrations, which may result in the loss of therapeutic efficacy and development of resistance. Bictegravir is a substrate of CYP3A4 and UGT1A1. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer as well as a UGT inducer.
Bortezomib: (Major) Coadministration of apalutamide with bortezomib is not recommended due to decreases in bortezomib plasma concentrations. Bortezomib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer is expected to decrease the exposure of bortezomib by at least 45%.
Bosutinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of bosutinib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of bosutinib. Bosutinib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased bosutinib exposure by 94%.
Brentuximab vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of brentuximab if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased MMAE exposure by approximately 46%.
Brexpiprazole: (Major) Double the usual dose of brexpiprazole over 1 to 2 weeks if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. If apalutamide is discontinued, reduce the brexpiprazole dose to the original level over 1 to 2 weeks. Brexpiprazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased brexpiprazole exposure by 73%.
Brigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of brigatinib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma exposure to brigatinib which may result in decreased efficacy. Brigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of brigatinib by 80% and 60%, respectively.
Brivaracetam: (Major) Increase the dose of brivaracetam by up to 100% in patients taking concomitant apalutamide. Coadministration of brivaracetam with apalutamide may decrease brivaracetam exposure and reduce its efficacy. Brivaracetam is a CYP2C19 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP2C19 inducer. Plasma concentrations of brivaracetam were reduced by 45% when administered with another strong CYP2C19 inducer.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in bromocriptine efficacy during concomitant use of bromocriptine and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease bromocriptine exposure. Bromocriptine is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
busPIRone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of buspirone if apalutamide is added to a patient on a stable dosage of buspirone; a dose increase of buspirone may be needed to maintain anxiolytic activity. Buspirone is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of buspirone by 89.6%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Cabotegravir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cabotegravir and apalutamide is contraindicated due to the potential for significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cabotegravir, which may result in potential loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Cabotegravir is a substrate for UGT1A1 and UGT1A9; apalutamide is an inducer of UGT. Coadministration with another UGT inducer decreased cabotegravir exposure by 59%.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of cabotegravir and apalutamide is contraindicated due to the potential for significant decreases in the plasma concentrations of cabotegravir, which may result in potential loss of virologic response and development of resistance. Cabotegravir is a substrate for UGT1A1 and UGT1A9; apalutamide is an inducer of UGT. Coadministration with another UGT inducer decreased cabotegravir exposure by 59%. (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of apalutamide and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4, which is primarily responsible for the metabolism of rilpivirine. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Cabozantinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of cabozantinib with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased cabozantinib exposure which could affect efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of cabozantinib. For patients taking cabozantinib tablets, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 20 mg (e.g., 60 mg/day to 80 mg/day; 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day); the daily dose should not exceed 80 mg. For patients taking cabozantinib capsules, increase the dose of cabozantinib by 40 mg (e.g., 140 mg/day to 180 mg/day or 100 mg/day to 140 mg/day); the daily dose should not exceed 180 mg. Resume the cabozantinib dose that was used prior to initiating treatment with apalutamide 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of apalutamide. Cabozantinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased single-dose cabozantinib exposure by 77%.
Canagliflozin: (Major) Increase the canagliflozin dose to 200 mg/day in persons who are tolerating canagliflozin 100 mg/day and receiving concomitant apalutamide. The canagliflozin dose may be further increased to 300 mg/day for persons with an eGFR of 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more who require additional glycemic control; consider adding another antihyperglycemic agent for persons with an eGFR less than 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 who require additional glycemic control. Canagliflozin is an UGT1A9 and UGT2B4 substrate, and apalutamide is an UGT inducer. Coadministration with a nonselective inducer of several UGT enzymes decreased canagliflozin exposure by 51%. This decrease in exposure may decrease canagliflozin efficacy.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Major) Increase the canagliflozin dose to 200 mg/day in persons who are tolerating canagliflozin 100 mg/day and receiving concomitant apalutamide. The canagliflozin dose may be further increased to 300 mg/day for persons with an eGFR of 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 or more who require additional glycemic control; consider adding another antihyperglycemic agent for persons with an eGFR less than 60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 who require additional glycemic control. Canagliflozin is an UGT1A9 and UGT2B4 substrate, and apalutamide is an UGT inducer. Coadministration with a nonselective inducer of several UGT enzymes decreased canagliflozin exposure by 51%. This decrease in exposure may decrease canagliflozin efficacy.
Cannabidiol: (Moderate) Consider a dose increase of cannabidiol if coadministered with apalutamide. Consider a dose reduction of apalutamide if apalutamide adverse reactions occur. Coadministration may decrease cannabidiol plasma concentrations resulting in a decrease in efficacy and increase apalutamide exposure increasing the risk of adverse effects. Cannabidiol is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2C19; in vitro data predicts cannabidiol inhibits CYP2C8. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 and a substrate of CYP2C8.
Capivasertib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capivasertib with apalutamide due to decreased capivasertib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Capivasertib is a CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the capivasertib overall exposure by 70%.
Capmatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of capmatinib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased capmatinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Capmatinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased capmatinib exposure by 67%.
carBAMazepine: (Moderate) Closely monitor carbamazepine levels if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Carbamazepine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Inducers of CYP3A4 can increase the rate of carbamazepine metabolism and decrease carbamazepine levels.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a CYP3A inducer.
Carisoprodol: (Moderate) Monitor for an altered clinical response to carisoprodol if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Carisoprodol is metabolized by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP2C19 inducer. Coadministration could decrease exposure to carisoprodol and increase exposure to meprobamate. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of carvedilol if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Carvedilol is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration with a multi-enzyme inducer decreased plasma concentrations of carvedilol by about 70%.
Celecoxib: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of celecoxib if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; a celecoxib dosage adjustment may be necessary. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of celecoxib.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of celecoxib if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; a celecoxib dosage adjustment may be necessary. Celecoxib is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration may decrease plasma concentrations of celecoxib. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ceritinib with apalutamide as ceritinib exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy; apalutamide exposure may also increase. Ceritinib is a CYP3A substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased ceritinib exposure by 70%. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) by 28%.
Chloramphenicol: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with chloramphenicol is necessary. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with apalutamide can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Cisapride: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of cisapride if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and cisapride is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of cisapride.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Consider alternatives to clarithromycin if treatment with apalutamide is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes will decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Exposure to apalutamide may also be increased. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with rifabutin. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Clindamycin: (Moderate) Monitor for loss of clindamycin efficacy with coadministration of apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease clindamycin exposure. Clindamycin is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4.
clonazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy and a change in clonazepam dosage requirements when giving concurrently with apalutamide. Clonazepam concentration decreases of approximately 38% have been reported when clonazepam is used with strong CYP3A4 inducers. Clonazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Clopidogrel: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of clopidogrel and apalutamide due to the increased risk of bleeding. Concomitant use may increase plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and increase platelet inhibition. Clopidogrel is primarily metabolized to its active metabolite by CYP2C19 and apalutamide is a strong CYP2C19 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP2C19 inducer increased the concentration of clopidogrel's active metabolite by 3.8x and increased 4-hour post-dose platelet inhibition by 34%.
Clorazepate: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of clorazepate if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Clorazepate is a prodrug converted to N-desmethyldiazepam in the GI tract; N-desmethyldiazepam is metabolized by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease N-desmethyldiazepam plasma concentrations.
cloZAPine: (Major) Coadministration of clozapine with apalutamide is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of clozapine. If concomitant use is unavoidable, the patient should be monitored for loss of efficacy; consider increasing the clozapine dose if necessary. When apalutamide is discontinued, reduce the clozapine dose based on clinical response. Clozapine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. In addition, there is a potential for increased apalutamide exposure. If these drugs are used together, monitor for an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Apalutamide is a substrate and strong inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively. The steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Cobimetinib: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of cobimetinib with apalutamide due to decreased cobimetinib efficacy. Cobimetinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Based on simulations, cobimetinib exposure would decrease by 83% when coadministered with a strong CYP3A inducer.
Codeine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Moderate) Concomitant use of codeine with apalutamide can decrease codeine levels, resulting in less metabolism by CYP2D6 and decreased morphine concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A4 to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Copanlisib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of copanlisib and apalutamide; decreased copanlisib exposure and loss of efficacy may occur. Copanlisib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased exposure after a single dose of copanlisib by 60%.
Crinecerfont: (Major) Increase the crinecerfont morning and evening doses 2-fold if concomitant use with apalutamide is necessary. Concomitant use is expected to decrease crinecerfont exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Crinecerfont is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced crinecerfont overall exposure by 62%.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of crizotinib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of crizotinib, which may result in decreased efficacy. Crizotinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the crizotinib AUC and Cmax at steady state by 84% and 79%, respectively.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine levels and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Cyclosporine is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 and has a narrow therapeutic index; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Dabigatran: (Major) Coadministration of dabigatran with apalutamide should generally be avoided due to the risk of deceased dabigatran exposure which may reduce efficacy. Dabigatran is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and apalutamide is a weak P-gp inducer.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased blood sugars if coadministration of saxagliptin with apalutamide is necessary. Saxagliptin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased saxagliptin exposure by 76%.
Dapsone: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in hemolysis if coadministration of dapsone with apalutamide is necessary; dapsone efficacy may also be compromised. Dapsone is a CYP3A4 metabolite and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Strong CYP3A4 inducers may increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine, a metabolite associated with hemolysis. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased dapsone levels by 7-fold to 10-fold; in leprosy, this reduction has not required a change in dosage.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daraxonrasib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease daraxonrasib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, increase the daraxonrasib dosage to 400 mg once daily. Daraxonrasib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A inducers reduced daraxonrasib overall exposure by 50% to 70%.
Daridorexant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of daridorexant and apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease daridorexant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Daridorexant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer decreased daridorexant overall exposure by over 50%.
Darolutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of darolutamide with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased darolutamide plasma concentrations which may decrease efficacy. Apalutamide is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducer and a strong inducer of CYP3A4; darolutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use with another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the mean AUC and Cmax of darolutamide by 72% and 52%, respectively.
Darunavir: (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased darunavir concentrations; exposure to apalutamide may also increase. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. In addition, there is a potential for increased apalutamide exposure. If these drugs are used together, monitor for an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Apalutamide is a substrate and strong inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively. The steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%. (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased darunavir concentrations; exposure to apalutamide may also increase. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. In addition, there is a potential for increased apalutamide exposure. If these drugs are used together, monitor for an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Apalutamide is a substrate and strong inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively. The steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%. (Major) Coadministration of darunavir with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased darunavir concentrations; exposure to apalutamide may also increase. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Darunavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and apalutamide is a P-gp and BCRP inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Dasatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dasatinib and apalutamide due to the potential for decreased dasatinib exposure and reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider an increased dose of dasatinib and monitor for toxicity. Dasatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concurrent use of another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the mean Cmax and AUC of dasatinib by 81% and 82%, respectively.
Deferasirox: (Moderate) Monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical response to deferasirox if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Deferasirox is a substrate of UGT1A1 and 1A3. Apalutamide may be a UGT inducer.
Deflazacort: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of deflazacort and apalutamide due to the risk of significantly decreased concentrations of 21-desDFZ, the active metabolite of deflazacort, resulting in loss of efficacy. Deflazacort is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4. Administration with multiple doses of another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased deflazacort exposure by 95%.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
dexAMETHasone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of dexamethasone if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of dexamethasone if clinically appropriate. Dexamethasone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Dexlansoprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dexlansoprazole with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of dexlansoprazole. Dexlansoprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Moderate) Closely monitor quinidine concentrations if apalutamide is added to existing quinidine therapy. No special precautions appear necessary if apalutamide is started several weeks before quinidine, but quinidine doses may require adjustment if apalutamide is added or discontinued during quinidine therapy. Quinidine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the half-life and corresponding AUC of quinidine by 50% to 60%.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor for diazepam withdrawal symptoms or lack of efficacy if coadministration of diazepam with apalutamide is necessary. Diazepam is a CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer, as well as a weak CYP2C9 inducer.
Diclofenac: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of diclofenac if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; a dosage adjustment of diclofenac may be necessary. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a CYP2C9 inducer.
Diclofenac; miSOPROStol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of diclofenac if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; a dosage adjustment of diclofenac may be necessary. Diclofenac is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a CYP2C9 inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing apalutamide. Digoxin is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and apalutamide is a weak P-gp inducer. Drugs that induce P-gp have the potential to alter digoxin pharmacokinetics.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid coadministration of diltiazem and apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of diltiazem. Diltiazem is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer lowered diltiazem plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Disopyramide: (Moderate) Monitor disopyramide serum concentrations and for loss of efficacy when coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Disopyramide exposure may be decreased during concurrent use. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and disopyramide is a CYP3A4 substrate.
DOCEtaxel: (Major) Avoid coadministration of docetaxel with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of docetaxel. Docetaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with other strong CYP3A4 inducers increased docetaxel metabolism by 2.6-fold to 32-fold.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with apalutamide; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with apalutamide; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of apalutamide and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4, which is primarily responsible for the metabolism of rilpivirine. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine. (Moderate) Dolutegravir plasma concentrations may be reduced when administered concurrently with apalutamide; thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failures or the development of viral-resistance. Currently, there are insufficient data to make dosing recommendations; however, predictions regarding this interaction can be made based on the drugs metabolic pathways. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer and dolutegravir is partially metabolized by this isoenzyme.
Donepezil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of donepezil if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Donepezil is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Inducers of CYP3A4 could increase the rate of elimination of donepezil.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of donepezil if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Donepezil is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Inducers of CYP3A4 could increase the rate of elimination of donepezil.
Doravirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and apalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and apalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of doravirine and apalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. At least a 4-week cessation period is recommended before initiating treatment with doravirine. Doravirine is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of dordaviprone and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease dordaviprone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Dordaviprone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce dordaviprone overall exposure by 83%.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with apalutamide due to decreased doxorubicin plasma concentrations. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of doxorubicin with apalutamide due to decreased doxorubicin plasma concentrations. Doxorubicin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the concentration of doxorubicin and compromise the efficacy of chemotherapy.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in dronabinol efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Dronabinol is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and a weak inducer of CYP2C9.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of dronedarone with apalutamide due to decreased dronedarone exposure. Dronedarone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased dronedarone exposure by 80%.
Drospirenone: (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of duvelisib with apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of duvelisib, which may reduce the efficacy of duvelisib. Duvelisib is a CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. In drug interaction studies, coadministration of duvelisib with another strong CYP3A inducer for 7 days decreased duvelisib Cmax and AUC by 66% and 82%, respectively.
Edoxaban: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of edoxaban if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; decreased concentrations of edoxaban may occur with concomitant use. Edoxaban is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and apalutamide is a weak P-gp inducer.
Efavirenz: (Major) Use caution if apalutamide and efavirenz are used concomitantly, as coadministration may significantly reduce plasma concentrations of efavirenz, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. When efavirenz is coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer, it is recommended to increase efavirenz from 600 mg/day to 800 mg/day (patients weighing at least 50 kg). Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Use caution if apalutamide and efavirenz are used concomitantly, as coadministration may significantly reduce plasma concentrations of efavirenz, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. When efavirenz is coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer, it is recommended to increase efavirenz from 600 mg/day to 800 mg/day (patients weighing at least 50 kg). Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Use caution if apalutamide and efavirenz are used concomitantly, as coadministration may significantly reduce plasma concentrations of efavirenz, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. When efavirenz is coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer, it is recommended to increase efavirenz from 600 mg/day to 800 mg/day (patients weighing at least 50 kg). Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and efavirenz is a CYP3A4 substrate; coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of efavirenz.
Elacestrant: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of elacestrant and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased elacestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elacestrant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elacestrant overall exposure by 86%.
Elagolix: (Moderate) Concomitant use of elagolix and apalutamide may result in decreased concentrations of elagolix; monitor for decreased efficacy with coadministration. Elagolix is a CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin). (Moderate) Concomitant use of elagolix and apalutamide may result in decreased concentrations of elagolix; monitor for decreased efficacy with coadministration. Elagolix is a CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A.
Elbasvir; Grazoprevir: (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of apalutamide with elbasvir is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of elbasvir, and may result in decreased virologic response. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer and elbasvir is a substrate of CYP3A. (Contraindicated) Concurrent administration of apalutamide with grazoprevir is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of grazoprevir, and may result in decreased virologic response. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer and grazoprevir is a substrate of CYP3A.
Elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor: (Major) Coadministration of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor with apalutamide is not recommended as concurrent use may decrease exposure of elexacaftor; tezacaftor; ivacaftor. Elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor are CYP3A4 substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate). Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure by 89%; elexacaftor and tezacaftor exposures are expected to also decrease during coadministration of strong CYP3A4 inducers. (Major) Coadministration of ivacaftor with apalutamide is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivacaftor. Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure by approximately 9-fold. (Major) Do not administer tezacaftor; ivacaftor and apalutamide together; coadministration may reduce the efficacy of tezacaftor; ivacaftor. Exposure to ivacaftor is significantly decreased and exposure to tezacaftor may be reduced by the concomitant use of apalutamide, a strong CYP3A inducer; both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate). Coadministration of ivacaftor with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased ivacaftor exposure 89%. Tezacaftor exposures can also be expected to decrease significantly during coadministration with strong CYP3A inducers.
Elinzanetant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of elinzanetant and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease elinzanetant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Elinzanetant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced elinzanetant overall exposure by 64%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. In addition, there is a potential for increased apalutamide exposure. If these drugs are used together, monitor for an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Apalutamide is a substrate and strong inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively. The steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%. (Major) Coadministration of elvitegravir with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased elvitegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Elvitegravir is metabolized by CYP3A4 and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and apalutamide is a P-gp and BCRP inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Coadministration of cobicistat with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased cobicistat concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. In addition, there is a potential for increased apalutamide exposure. If these drugs are used together, monitor for an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Apalutamide is a substrate and strong inducer of CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively. The steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%. (Major) Coadministration of elvitegravir with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased elvitegravir concentrations. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Elvitegravir is metabolized by CYP3A4 and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and apalutamide if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and apalutamide if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of apalutamide and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4, which is primarily responsible for the metabolism of rilpivirine. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine. (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and apalutamide is a P-gp and BCRP inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of apalutamide and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4, which is primarily responsible for the metabolism of rilpivirine. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and apalutamide is a P-gp and BCRP inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of encorafenib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease encorafenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Encorafenib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased ensartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ensartinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ensitrelvir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ensitrelvir and apalutamide is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased ensitrelvir exposure which may reduce ensitrelvir efficacy potentially resulting in loss of virologic response. Apalutamide exposure may also increase. Ensitrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor and apalutamide is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ensitrelvir overall exposure by 40% to 45%. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the steady-state exposure of the active moieties of apalutamide (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) by approximately 28%.
Entrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of entrectinib with apalutamide due to decreased entrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Entrectinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the entrectinib AUC by 77% in a drug interaction study.
Eravacycline: (Major) Increase the dose of eravacycline to 1.5 mg/kg IV every 12 hours when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer, such as apalutamide. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers decreases the exposure of eravacycline, which may reduce its efficacy. When eravacycline was administered with a strong CYP3A4/3A5 inducer, the eravacycline AUC was decreased by 35% and its clearance was increased by 54%.
Erdafitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erdafitinib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of erdafitinib resulting in decreased efficacy. Erdafitinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Erlotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of erlotinib with apalutamide if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of erlotinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of erlotinib in 50 mg increments at 2-week intervals as tolerated (maximum dose, 450 mg). Erlotinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased erlotinib exposure by 58% to 80%.
Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of esomeprazole with apalutamide due to decreased esomeprazole plasma concentrations. Esomeprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer. Coadministration with another strong inducer of CYP3A4 inducer decreased omeprazole exposure by 37.9% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers and by 43.9% in extensive metabolizers; esomeprazole is an enantiomer of omeprazole.
Estazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of estazolam efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Estazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. While no in vivo drug-drug interaction studies were conducted between estazolam and inducers of CYP3A, compounds that are potent CYP3A inducers would be expected to decrease estazolam concentrations.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Eszopiclone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of eszopiclone if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Eszopiclone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased racemic zopiclone exposure by 80%; a similar effect would be expected with eszopiclone.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Etonogestrel: (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Etravirine: (Major) The concomitant use of apalutamide with etravirine is not recommended due to significant decreases in etravirine plasma concentrations and, thus, possible loss of therapeutic effect. Etravirine is a CYP3A4, CYP2C19, and CYP2C9 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer, as well as a weak CYP2C9 inducer.
Everolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of everolimus with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased efficacy of everolimus. If concomitant use is unavoidable, coadministration requires a dose increase for some indications and close monitoring for others. For oncology indications and tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC)-associated renal angiomyolipoma, double the daily dose using increments of 5 mg or less; multiple increments may be required. For patients with TSC-associated subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) and TSC-associated partial-onset seizures, assess the everolimus whole blood trough concentration 2 weeks after initiation of apalutamide and adjust the dose as necessary to remain in the recommended therapeutic range. Also closely monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations in patients receiving everolimus for either kidney or liver transplant and adjust the dose as necessary to remain in the recommended therapeutic range. Everolimus is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of everolimus by 63%. For indications where everolimus trough concentrations are monitored, the addition of a second strong CYP3A4 inducer in a patient already receiving treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inducer may not require additional dose modification.
Exemestane: (Major) If coadministration of exemestane with apalutamide is necessary, increase the dose of exemestane to 50 mg once daily after a meal. Exemestane is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased exemestane exposure by 54%.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fedratinib with apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease fedratinib exposure which may result in decreased therapeutic response. Fedratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of fedratinib with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the overall exposure of fedratinib by 81%.
Felodipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of felodipine with apalutamide if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of felodipine. Felodipine is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased felodipine exposure by 94% in a pharmacokinetic study.
Fenfluramine: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fenfluramine and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased fenfluramine plasma concentrations, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for decreased efficacy and consider increasing fenfluramine dose as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued during fenfluramine maintenance treatment, consider gradual reduction in the fenfluramine dosage to the dose administered prior to apalutamide initiation. Fenfluramine is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer like apalutamide with fentanyl, a CYP3A4 substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of fexinidazole and apalutamide. Coadministration may increase the risk for fexinidazole-related adverse effects including QT prolongation. Concomitant use may enhance the conversion of fexinidazole to its active metabolites. Higher metabolite concentrations have been associated with increased risk of QT prolongation. Fexinidazole is converted to its active metabolites via CYP3A and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Finerenone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of finerenone and apalutamide due to the risk for decreased finerenone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Finerenone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased overall exposure to finerenone by 90%.
Flibanserin: (Major) Coadministration of flibanserin with apalutamide is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of flibanserin. Flibanserin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased flibanserin exposure by 95%.
Flotufolastat F 18: (Moderate) Androgen receptor antagonists may affect prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) expression and alter PSMA imaging studies that utilize radiolabeled flotufolastat.
Flurazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of flurazepam efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Flurazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Food: (Major) Advise patients to avoid cannabis use during apalutamide treatment. Concomitant use may decrease the concentration of some cannabinoids and alter their effects. The cannabinoids delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of a cannabinoid product containing THC and CBD at an approximate 1:1 ratio with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased THC, 11-OH-THC, and CBD peak exposures by 36%, 87%, and 52% respectively.
Fosamprenavir: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased fosamprenavir efficacy if coadministered with apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of fosamprenavir leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Fosamprenavir is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the fosamprenavir overall exposure by 82%.
Fostamatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of fostamatinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease exposure to tamatinib, the active metabolite of fostamatinib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tamatinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tamatinib overall exposure by 75%.
Fostemsavir: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of fostemsavir and apalutamide is contraindicated. Use of these drugs together may significantly decrease the plasma concentrations of temsavir, the active moiety of fostemsavir, thereby increasing the risk for HIV treatment failure or development of viral resistance. Temsavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Fruquintinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of fruquintinib with apalutamide due to decreased fruquintinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Fruquintinib is a CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A inducer decreased fruquintinib exposure by 65%.
Futibatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of futibatinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease futibatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Futibatinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced futibatinib overall exposure by 64%.
Ganaxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ganaxolone and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased ganaxolone efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing ganaxolone dose without exceeding the maximum daily dose. Ganaxolone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ganaxolone overall exposure by 68%.
Gefitinib: (Major) Increase the dose of gefitinib to 500 mg PO once daily if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. If apalutamide is discontinued, gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once daily may be resumed 7 days later. Gefitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced gefitinib exposure by 83%.
Gemfibrozil: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions if coadministration with gemfibrozil is necessary. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Apalutamide is a CYP2C8 substrate and gemfibrozil is a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor. Coadministration with gemfibrozil decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 21% but increased the AUC by 68%; strong CYP2C8 inhibition is expected to increase the steady-state apalutamide Cmax by 32% and AUC by 44%. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 23%.
Gepirone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepirone and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease gepirone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepirone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepirone overall exposure by 29-fold.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of gepotidacin and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease gepotidacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Gepotidacin is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced gepotidacin overall exposure by 52%.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of gilteritinib and apalutamide due to the potential for decreased gilteritinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Gilteritinib is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the gilteritinib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Glasdegib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of glasdegib and apalutamide due to the potential for decreased glasdegib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Glasdegib is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the glasdegib AUC by 70% in a drug interaction study.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Major) Coadministration of glecaprevir with apalutamide is not recommended as apalutamide may significantly decrease plasma concentrations of glecaprevir resulting in loss of efficacy. Glecaprevir is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and a weak inducer of P-gp. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inducer decreased glecaprevir exposure by 66%. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of pibrentasvir if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Pibrentasvir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP substrate. Apalutamide is a weak P-gp and BCRPP inducer. Concomitant use may decrease pibrentasvir plasma concentrations.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of glimepiride if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Glimepiride is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration with other CYP2C inducers decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride, leading to worsened glycemic control.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Monitor blood sugars if coadministration of glyburide with apalutamide is necessary. Glyburide is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration may decrease glyburide plasma concentrations, resulting in increased blood sugars.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor blood sugars if coadministration of glyburide with apalutamide is necessary. Glyburide is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration may decrease glyburide plasma concentrations, resulting in increased blood sugars.
Granisetron: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of granisetron if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Granisetron is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In a human pharmacokinetic study, coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer increased the total plasma clearance of granisetron by 25%. The clinical significance of this change is not known.
guanFACINE: (Major) A dose increase of extended-release (ER) guanfacine should be considered if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Consider doubling the recommended dose of guanfacine if therapy is added to a patient already taking apalutamide; increase the dose of guanfacine over 1 to 2 weeks if apalutamide therapy is added to a patient already taking guanfacine. Specific recommendations for immediate-release (IR) guanfacine are not available. Guanfacine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased guanfacine exposure by 70%.
Haloperidol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of haloperidol if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Haloperidol is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased haloperidol plasma concentrations by a mean of 70% and increased mean scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale from baseline.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with apalutamide can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with apalutamide can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Concomitant use of hydrocodone with apalutamide can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence. It is recommended to avoid this combination when hydrocodone is being used for cough. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Hydrocortisone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased corticosteroid efficacy if hydrocortisone is used with apalutamide; a hydrocortisone dosage increase may be necessary. Concurrent use may decrease hydrocortisone exposure. Hydrocortisone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Iberdomide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of iberdomide and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease iberdomide exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Iberdomide is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced iberdomide overall exposure by 90%.
Ibrexafungerp: (Major) Avoid concurrent administration of ibrexafungerp with apalutamide. Use of these drugs together is expected to significantly decrease ibrexafungerp exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Ibrexafungerp is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ibrutinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ibrutinib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of ibrutinib. Ibrutinib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ibrutinib exposure by more than 10-fold.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of idelalisib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of idelalisib; exposure to apalutamide may also increase. Idelalisib is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased idelalisib exposure by 75%. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Ifosfamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor for increased ifosfamide-related toxicities (e.g., neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity) if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider adjusting the dose of ifosfamide as clinically appropriate. Ifosfamide is metabolized to its active alkylating metabolites by CYP3A4; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may increase the formation of the neurotoxic/nephrotoxic ifosfamide metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of imatinib with apalutamide if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of imatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of imatinib by at least 50%, carefully monitoring clinical response; imatinib doses up to 1,200 mg per day (600 mg twice daily) have been given to patients receiving concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers. Imatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer increased imatinib clearance by 3.8-fold, which significantly decreased the mean Cmax and AUC of imatinib.
Imipramine: (Moderate) Monitor for decrease in the efficacy of imipramine if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; adjust the dose of imipramine if clinically appropriate. Imipramine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The plasma concentration of imipramine may decrease when given concomitantly with CYP3A4 inducers.
Imlunestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and apalutamide. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Infigratinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of infigratinib and apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease infigratinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Infigratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of infigratinib by 56%.
Irinotecan Liposomal: (Major) Avoid administration of apalutamide during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 2 weeks prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are CYP3A4 substrates. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers substantially reduced exposure to irinotecan or SN-38 in both adult and pediatric patients. An appropriate starting dose for patients taking irinotecan with strong CYP3A4 inducers has not been defined.
Irinotecan: (Major) Avoid administration of apalutamide during treatment with irinotecan and for at least 2 weeks prior to starting therapy unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. Irinotecan and its active metabolite, SN-38, are CYP3A4 substrates. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers substantially reduced exposure to irinotecan or SN-38 in both adult and pediatric patients. An appropriate starting dose for patients taking irinotecan with strong CYP3A4 inducers has not been defined.
Isavuconazonium: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of isavuconazonium with apalutamide is contraindicated due to the potential for decreased isavuconazole serum concentrations and treatment failure. Isavuconazole, the active moiety of isavuconazonium, is a sensitive substrate of hepatic isoenzyme CYP3A4; apalutamide is a strong inducer of this enzyme. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased isavuconazole serum concentrations by 97%.
Isradipine: (Major) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Isradipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased isradipine levels to below detectable limits.
Istradefylline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of istradefylline with apalutamide as istradefylline exposure and efficacy may be reduced. Apalutamide is a strong inducer. Istradefylline exposure was decreased by 81% when administered with a strong inducer in a drug interaction study.
Itraconazole: (Major) The use of apalutamide within 2 weeks of itraconazole therapy is not recommended. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of itraconazole and increase the dose of itraconazole as necessary. Exposure to apalutamide may also increase; monitor for apalutamide-related adverse reactions. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Itraconazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. Coadministration with itraconazole decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar.
Ivabradine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivabradine and apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivabradine. Ivabradine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ivabradine exposure by approximately half.
Ivacaftor: (Major) Coadministration of ivacaftor with apalutamide is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivacaftor. Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure by approximately 9-fold.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ivosidenib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivosidenib. Ivosidenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease ivosidenib exposure at steady-state by 33%.
Ixabepilone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of ixabepilone and apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of ixabepilone, which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually increase the dose of ixabepilone as tolerated from 40 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 and infuse over 4 hours; monitor carefully for ixabepilone-related toxicities. Ixabepilone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ixabepilone exposure by 43%.
Ixazomib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of ixazomib and apalutamide; ixazomib levels may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Ixazomib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the ixazomib Cmax and AUC by 54% and 74%, respectively.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid apalutamide for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. The exposure of apalutamide may also be increased. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole and/or increased apalutamide-related adverse effects; adjust dosage for both drugs as needed. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor; apalutamide is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer.
lamoTRIgine: (Moderate) Adjustments in lamotrigine escalation and maintenance dose regimens may be necessary with concomitant apalutamide use. Monitoring lamotrigine plasma concentrations may be indicated, particularly during dosage adjustments. Lamotrigine is metabolized predominantly by glucuronic acid conjugation, and apalutamide induces glucuronidation.
Lansoprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lansoprazole with apalutamide due to decreased lansoprazole exposure. Lansoprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lansoprazole with apalutamide due to decreased lansoprazole exposure. Lansoprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer. (Major) Consider alternatives to clarithromycin if treatment with apalutamide is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes will decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Exposure to apalutamide may also be increased. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with rifabutin. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Lapatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lapatinib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of lapatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, gradually titrate the dose of lapatinib from 1,250 mg per day to 4,500 mg per day in patients receiving concomitant capecitabine (HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer), and from 1,500 mg per day to 5,500 mg per day in patients receiving concomitant aromatase inhibitor therapy (HR-positive, HER2-positive breast cancer) based on tolerability. If apalutamide is discontinued, reduce lapatinib to the indicated dose. Lapatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased lapatinib exposure by 72%.
Larotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of larotrectinib with apalutamide due to decreased larotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. If coadministration cannot be avoided, double the larotrectinib dose. If apalutamide is discontinued, resume the original larotrectinib dose after 3 to 5 elimination half-lives of apalutamide. Larotrectinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the larotrectinib AUC by 81% in a drug interaction study.
Lazertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of lazertinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease lazertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lazertinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lazertinib overall exposure by 83%.
Ledipasvir; Sofosbuvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sofosbuvir with inducers of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP, such as apalutamide. Taking these drugs together may decrease sofosbuvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. (Major) Coadministration of ledipasvir with apalutamide is not recommended. Taking these drugs together may decrease ledipasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Ledipasvir is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and apalutamide is a weak P-gp inducer.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lefamulin with apalutamide unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may decrease lefamulin exposure and efficacy. Lefamulin is a CYP3A4 and P-gp substrate; apalutamide is a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the mean AUC of oral and intravenous lefamulin by 72% and 28%, respectively.
Lemborexant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lemborexant and apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease lemborexant exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lemborexant is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Concurrent use of lenacapavir for HIV treatment and apalutamide is contraindicated due to the risk for reduced lenacapavir exposure, which may lead to loss of therapeutic efficacy and development of resistance. If lenacapavir is used for HIV PrEP and use with apalutamide is necessary, supplemental lenacapavir doses are required to maintain effective drug concentrations. On the day apalutamide is initiated, which should be at least 2 days after lenacapavir initiation, a supplemental dose of 927 mg subcutaneously and 600 mg orally should be given (Step 1). The following day, an additional oral dose of 600 mg should be administered (Step 2). If apalutamide is continued for longer than 6 months, this 2-step supplemental dosing regimen must be repeated every 6 months. After discontinuation of apalutamide, the standard 6-month injection schedule for lenacapavir should be resumed. Recommendations are not available for those already on apalutamide at the time of lenacapavir initiation or those receiving weekly oral lenacapavir. Lenacapavir is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced lenacapavir overall exposure by 84%.
Leniolisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of leniolisib and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease leniolisib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Leniolisib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced leniolisib overall exposure by 78%.
Letermovir: (Major) Concurrent administration of letermovir and apalutamide is not recommended. Use of these drugs together may decrease letermovir plasma concentrations, resulting in a potential loss of letermovir efficacy. Letermovir is a substrate of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A1/3 (UGT1A1/3) and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Apalutamide may induce UGT and is a weak inducer of P-gp. Also, plasma concentrations of apalutamide could be increased when administered concurrently with letermovir. The magnitude of this interaction may be increased in patients who are also receiving cyclosporine. Apalutamide is metabolized by CYP3A4. Letermovir is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4; however, when given with cyclosporine, the combined effect on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions of intolerable toxicities.
Levamlodipine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid apalutamide for 2 weeks prior to and during treatment with apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease exposure of ketoconazole and reduce its efficacy. The exposure of apalutamide may also be increased. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor for decreased efficacy of ketoconazole and/or increased apalutamide-related adverse effects; adjust dosage for both drugs as needed. Ketoconazole is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor; apalutamide is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Lidocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lidocaine if coadministration of systemic lidocaine with apalutamide is necessary; higher doses of lidocaine may be required. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Lidocaine; EPINEPHrine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lidocaine if coadministration of systemic lidocaine with apalutamide is necessary; higher doses of lidocaine may be required. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Lidocaine; Prilocaine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of lidocaine if coadministration of systemic lidocaine with apalutamide is necessary; higher doses of lidocaine may be required. Lidocaine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and apalutamide if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in linagliptin efficacy during concomitant use of linagliptin and apalutamide if coadministration is required. Concomitant use may decrease linagliptin exposure. Linagliptin is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer reduced linagliptin overall exposure by 0.6-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lonafarnib and apalutamide is contraindicated; concurrent use may decrease lonafarnib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. The exposure of apalutamide may also be increased, increasing the risk for apalutamide-related adverse reactions. Lonafarnib is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the exposure of lonafarnib by 98%.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lopinavir with apalutamide is contraindicated. Taking these drugs together could decrease lopinavir concentrations, and may lead to a reduction in antiretroviral activity. Lopinavir is a CYP3A4 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ritonavir with apalutamide is contraindicated as there is a potential for decreased ritonavir concentrations which may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance; exposure to apalutamide may also increase. Ritonavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer.
Lorlatinib: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lorlatinib with apalutamide is contraindicated due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity as well as decreased lorlatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Discontinue apalutamide for 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating therapy with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased lorlatinib exposure by 85% and caused severe (grade 3 or 4) hepatotoxicity in 83% of patients.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Coadministration of ivacaftor with apalutamide is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivacaftor. Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure by approximately 9-fold.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of lumateperone with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased lumateperone overall exposure by greater than 30-fold.
Lurasidone: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of lurasidone with apalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased plasma concentrations of lurasidone. Lurasidone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased lurasidone exposure by 83%.
Lurbinectedin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lurbinectedin and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased lurbinectedin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Lurbinectedin is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Discontinue apalutamide and allow a sufficient washout period to pass before administering macimorelin. Use of these drugs together can significantly decrease macimorelin plasma concentrations, and may result in a false positive test for growth hormone deficiency. No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted; however, macimorelin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced systemic availability of the pharmacologically active moieties of macitentan by approximately 50% or more, which may lead to reduced efficacy.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of macitentan with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of macitentan. Macitentan is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced systemic availability of the pharmacologically active moieties of macitentan by approximately 50% or more, which may lead to reduced efficacy.
Maraviroc: (Major) Increase the adult maraviroc dose to 600 mg PO twice daily if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary without a concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, as maraviroc concentrations may be expected to decrease. Coadministration of maraviroc and apalutamide is contraindicated in patients with CrCL less than 30 mL/min. For pediatric patients, concomitant use of maraviroc with apalutamide without a strong CYP3A inhibitor is not recommended. If the patient's medication regimen also contains a strong CYP3A inhibitor, the CYP3A inhibitor's actions are expected to exceed that of the inducer; overall, increased maraviroc concentrations are expected. Maraviroc is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Maribavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of maribavir and apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease maribavir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. Maribavir is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of maribavir by 60%.
Mavacamten: (Contraindicated) Mavacamten is contraindicated for use with apalutamide due to risk for reduced mavacamten efficacy. Concomitant use decreases mavacamten exposure. Mavacamten is a CYP2C19 and CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP2C19 and CYP3A inducer. The impact that a CYP3A inducer may have on mavacamten overall exposure varies based on the patient's CYP2C19 metabolizer status. Concomitant use with a strong CYP2C19 or CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease mavacamten overall exposure by 69% and 87% in poor and normal CYP2C19 metabolizers, respectively.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mavorixafor and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease mavorixafor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Mavorixafor is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of mefloquine if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Mefloquine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased mefloquine exposure by 68%.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased blood sugars if coadministration of saxagliptin with apalutamide is necessary. Saxagliptin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased saxagliptin exposure by 76%.
Methadone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; these effects may be more pronounced with concomitant use of drugs that can induce multiple CYP enzymes. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer, as well as a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease methadone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in methylergonovine efficacy during concomitant use of methylergonovine and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease methylergonovine exposure. Methylergonovine is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Midazolam: (Major) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of midazolam efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Midazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with apalutamide decreased single-dose midazolam exposure by 92%.
Midostaurin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of midostaurin and apalutamide as midostaurin exposure may be decreased, which may reduce its efficacy. Midostaurin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the exposure of midostaurin and its metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 by 96%, 92%, and 59%, respectively.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mifepristone (Korlym) with apalutamide due to possible decreases in the plasma concentrations of mifepristone; exposure to apalutamide may also increase. The impact of apalutamide on the efficacy of short-term mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown; refer to the follow-up assessment to verify that treatment has been successful. Mifepristone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The concomitant use of CYP3A4 inducers with mifepristone has not been studied.
Mirtazapine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of mirtazapine if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; a dosage adjustment of mirtazapine may be necessary. Mirtazapine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers increased mirtazapine clearance by approximately 2-fold, decreasing the average mirtazapine plasma concentrations by 45% to 60%.
Mitapivat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of mitapivat with apalutamide due to decreased mitapivat efficacy. Coadministration decreases mitapivat concentrations. Mitapivat is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased mitapivat overall exposure by 91% to 95%.
Mobocertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Modafinil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of modafinil if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Modafinil is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The probability of effect of apalutamide on modafinil exposure is low due to the existence of multiple pathways for modafinil metabolism, as well as the fact that a non-CYP-related pathway is the most rapid in metabolizing modafinil; however, plasma concentrations of modafinil may be impacted by strong CYP3A4 inducers.
Naldemedine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of naldemedine with apalutamide due to a significant decrease in naldemedine plasma concentrations which may reduce efficacy. Naldemedine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased naldemedine exposure by 83%.
Naloxegol: (Major) Coadministration of naloxegol with apalutamide is not recommended due to the potential for decreased naloxegol efficacy. Naloxegol is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased naloxegol exposure by 89%.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nab-paclitaxel if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Nab-paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and apalutamide as use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer.
Naproxen; Esomeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of esomeprazole with apalutamide due to decreased esomeprazole plasma concentrations. Esomeprazole is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer. Coadministration with another strong inducer of CYP3A4 inducer decreased omeprazole exposure by 37.9% in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers and by 43.9% in extensive metabolizers; esomeprazole is an enantiomer of omeprazole.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nateglinide if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Nateglinide is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration may decrease nateglinide plasma concentrations resulting in hyperglycemia.
Nefazodone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nefazodone and an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions if coadministration is necessary. Nefazodone is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Apalutamide is a substrate and strong inducer of CYP3A4. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased nefazodone and hydroxynefazodone exposure by almost 95%. Use of apalutamide with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide). No initial dose adjustment of apalutamide is required, although the dose of apalutamide may need to be reduced based upon tolerability.
Nelfinavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of nelfinavir and apalutamide is contraindicated due to the potential for subtherapeutic antiretroviral activity and the subsequent possibility for the development of resistant HIV mutations; exposure to apalutamide may also increase. Nelfinavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. When administered with another strong CYP3A inducer, the plasma AUC, Cmax, and Cmin of nelfinavir decreased by 83%, 76%, and 92%, respectively. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Nerandomilast: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nerandomilast and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease nerandomilast exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nerandomilast is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased nerandomilast overall exposure by 51%.
Neratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apalutamide with neratinib due to decreased efficacy of neratinib. Neratinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased neratinib exposure by 87%, while exposure to active metabolites M6 and M7 were reduced by 37% to 49%.
Nevirapine: (Moderate) Use caution and monitor for decreased efficacy of nevirapine if coadministered with apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease the plasma concentrations of nevirapine leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Nevirapine is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased nevirapine exposure by greater than 50%.
NIFEdipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nifedipine with apalutamide and consider alternative therapy if possible. If coadministration is necessary, monitor the patient closely for desired cardiovascular effects on heart rate, blood pressure, or chest pain. The FDA-approved labeling for some nifedipine products contraindicates coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers, while other manufacturers classify the recommendation as a warning. Nifedipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of nifedipine with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced the AUC and Cmax of nifedipine by approximately 70%.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of nilotinib and apalutamide; significantly decreased nilotinib exposure and reduced nilotinib efficacy may occur. Nilotinib is a CYPA4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In a drug interaction study, coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased nilotinib exposure by approximately 80%.
niMODipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nimodipine with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Nimodipine plasma concentration and efficacy may be significantly reduced when concomitantly administered with strong CYP3A4 inducers.
Nintedanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nintedanib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of nintedanib. Nintedanib is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and, to a minor extent, CYP3A4. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer as well as a weak P-gp inducer. Coadministration with oral doses of another P-gp and CYP3A4 inducer decreased exposure to nintedanib by 50%.
Niraparib; Abiraterone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of abiraterone with apalutamide due to decreased abiraterone exposure. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the frequency of abiraterone administration to twice daily; reduce the frequency to once daily when apalutamide is discontinued. Abiraterone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased abiraterone exposure by 55%.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ritonavir with apalutamide is contraindicated as there is a potential for decreased ritonavir concentrations which may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance; exposure to apalutamide may also increase. Ritonavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ritonavir-boosted nirmatrelvir and apalutamide is contraindicated; consider an alternative COVID-19 therapy. Coadministration may decrease nirmatrelvir exposure resulting in reduced virologic response. The risk for reduced efficacy may persist following apalutamide discontinuation. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of nirogacestat and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease nirogacestat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Nirogacestat is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce nirogacestat overall exposure by 85%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of nisoldipine. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a apalutamide CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Norethindrone: (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Norgestrel: (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Avoid the concurrent use of samidorphan and apalutamide; decreased samidorphan exposure and loss of efficacy may occur. Samidorphan is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A inducer reduced samidorphan exposure by 73%.
Olaparib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of olaparib with apalutamide due to the risk of decreasing the efficacy of olaparib. Olaparib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer; concomitant use may decrease olaparib exposure. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the olaparib Cmax by 71% and the AUC by 87%.
Oliceridine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oliceridine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oliceridine as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oliceridine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oliceridine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentrations of oliceridine; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Olutasidenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of olutasidenib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased olutasidenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Olutasidenib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced olutasidenib exposure by approximately 80%.
Omaveloxolone: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of omaveloxolone and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease omaveloxolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Omaveloxolone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apalutamide with omeprazole as omeprazole plasma concentrations may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of both CYP3A and CYP2C19. Coadministration with apalutamide has been observed to decrease the overall exposure of omeprazole by 85%.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apalutamide with omeprazole as omeprazole plasma concentrations may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of both CYP3A and CYP2C19. Coadministration with apalutamide has been observed to decrease the overall exposure of omeprazole by 85%. (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of rifabutin and potential issues of resistance if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Rifabutin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Omeprazole; Sodium Bicarbonate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apalutamide with omeprazole as omeprazole plasma concentrations may be decreased, reducing its efficacy. Omeprazole is a CYP3A and CYP2C19 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of both CYP3A and CYP2C19. Coadministration with apalutamide has been observed to decrease the overall exposure of omeprazole by 85%.
Orforglipron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of orforglipron and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease orforglipron exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Orforglipron is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced orforglipron overall exposure by 82%.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms during coadministration of osilodrostat and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease osilodrostat exposure and reduce its efficacy; an increase in osilodrostat dose may be necessary. After discontinuation of apalutamide, monitor cortisol concentration and patient's signs and symptoms; a reduction in osilodrostat dose may be needed. Osilodrostat is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Osimertinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with osimertinib due to decreased plasma concentrations of osimertinib which may lead to reduced efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, increase the dose of osimertinib to 160 mg once daily. If apalutamide is discontinued, reduce the dose of osimertinib to 80 mg once daily after a washout period of 3 weeks. Osimertinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased osimertinib exposure by 78%.
Ospemifene: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ospemifene if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Ospemifene is a CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer as well as a weak inducer of CYP2C9. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4/moderate CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 inducer decreased ospemifene exposure by 58%.
Oveporexton: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of oveporexton and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease oveporexton exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Oveporexton is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced oveporexton overall exposure by 81%.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease oxycodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Pacritinib: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of pacritinib with apalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased pacritinib exposure which may impair efficacy. Pacritinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased pacritinib exposure by 87%.
Palbociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with palbociclib due to decreased plasma concentrations of palbociclib, which may result in decreased efficacy. Palbociclib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. In a drug interaction trial, coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of palbociclib by 85% and 70%, respectively.
Paliperidone: (Major) Avoid using apalutamide if possible during the 1-month injectable dosing interval of Invega Sustenna or the 3-month injectable dosing interval of Invega Trinza. If use of apalutamide is required in patients receiving injectable paliperidone, consider management with oral paliperidone. Oral paliperidone may be used; however, a dosage increase may be necessary. Paliperidone is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, with minor contributions in metabolism by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and a weak P-gp inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4/P-gp inducer decreased steady-state exposure of paliperidone by 37%.
Palovarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of palovarotene and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease palovarotene exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Palovarotene is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced palovarotene overall exposure by 11%.
Paltusotine: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in paltusotine efficacy during concomitant use of paltusotine and apalutamide; increase the paltusotine dosage as appropriate based on response. When increasing the paltusotine dosage, do not exceed 3x the prior dose or 120 mg daily, whichever is less. Concomitant use may decrease paltusotine exposure. Paltusotine is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced paltusotine overall exposure by 70%.
Panobinostat: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of panobinostat and apalutamide due to the possibility of significantly decreased plasma concentrations of panobinostat. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and panobinostat is a CYP3A4 substrate. Using a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic model, the systemic exposure was estimated to be decreased by 70% when a strong CYP3A inducer was co-administered with panobinostat.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib with apalutamide due to the potential for decreased plasma concentrations of pazopanib. Pazopanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Pemigatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pemigatinib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased pemigatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pemigatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pemigatinib exposure by 85%.
Perampanel: (Major) Start perampanel at a higher initial dose of 4 mg once daily at bedtime if perampanel is added to apalutamide therapy; increase the dose as tolerated in 2 mg increments no more than weekly, based on clinical response. If apalutamide is added or withdrawn from perampanel therapy, closely monitor patient response; a dosage adjustment may be necessary. Perampanel is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased perampanel exposure by 50% to 67%.
Perindopril; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pexidartinib with apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease pexidartinib exposure which may result in decreased therapeutic response. Pexidartinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pexidartinib exposure by 65%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Because pimavanserin is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, the manufacturer recommends avoiding concomitant use of pimavanserin with strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as apalutamide. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 reduce pimavanserin exposure, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of pimavanserin.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of glimepiride if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Glimepiride is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer. Coadministration with other CYP2C inducers decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride, leading to worsened glycemic control.
Pirtobrutinib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of pirtobrutinib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased pirtobrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pirtobrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pirtobrutinib overall exposure by 71%.
Pitolisant: (Major) For patients on a stable dose of pitolisant 8.9 mg or 17.8 mg once daily, double the original daily dose of pitolisant (i.e., 17.8 mg or 35.6 mg, respectively) over 7 days if concurrent use with apalutamide is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease pitolisant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Pitolisant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced pitolisant overall exposure by 50%.
Polatuzumab Vedotin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased polatuzumab vedotin efficacy during coadministration of apalutamide due to the risk of decreased exposure to the cytotoxic component of polatuzumab vedotin, MMAE. MMAE is metabolized by CYP3A4; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Strong CYP3A4 inducers are predicted to decrease the exposure of MMAE by 63%.
PONATinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ponatinib with apalutamide if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of ponatinib. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor for reduced efficacy of ponatinib. Ponatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ponatinib exposure by 62%.
Posaconazole: (Major) Coadministration of apalutamide with posaconazole should generally be avoided due to the possibility of decreased posaconazole plasma concentrations, unless the benefit outweighs the risk. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for breakthrough fungal infections and for an increase in apalutamide-related adverse reactions. Consider reducing the dose of apalutamide if necessary based on tolerability in patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse reactions or intolerable toxicities. Posaconazole is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Apalutamide is a weak P-gp inducer and a CYP3A4 substrate. Inducers of P-gp may affect posaconazole plasma concentrations. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with pralsetinib due to the risk of decreased pralsetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, double the current dose of pralsetinib starting on day 7 of coadministration. After apalutamide has been discontinued for at least 14 days, resume the pralsetinib dose taken prior to initiating apalutamide. Pralsetinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the pralsetinib AUC by 68%.
Praziquantel: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of praziquantel and apalutamide is contraindicated due to the risk of decreased praziquantel exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Praziquantel is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. In a crossover study with a 2-week washout period, administration of praziquantel followed by another strong CYP3A inducer resulted in undetectable plasma concentrations of praziquantel in 7 out of 10 subjects. When praziquantel was administered 2 weeks after discontinuation of the strong inducer, the mean praziquantel AUC was 23% lower than when praziquantel was given alone.
Pretomanid: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pretomanid with apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease pretomanid exposure which may lead to decreased efficacy. Pretomanid is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased pretomanid exposure by 66%.
Progesterone: (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Progestins: (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of propranolol if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Propranolol is a CYP2C19 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP2C19 inducer.
Quazepam: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of quazepam efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Quazepam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Increase the dose of quetiapine by up to 5-fold if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. If apalutamide is discontinued, reduce the quetiapine dose to the original level in 7 to 14 days. Quetiapine is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer increased the mean oral clearance of quetiapine by 5-fold.
quiNIDine: (Moderate) Closely monitor quinidine concentrations if apalutamide is added to existing quinidine therapy. No special precautions appear necessary if apalutamide is started several weeks before quinidine, but quinidine doses may require adjustment if apalutamide is added or discontinued during quinidine therapy. Quinidine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the half-life and corresponding AUC of quinidine by 50% to 60%.
quiNINE: (Major) Monitor for lack of quinine efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Quinine is a CYP3A4, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer, as well as a weak inducer of CYP2C9 and P-gp. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer that also induces multiple other enzymes decreased the quinine AUC by 75% to 85%.
Quizartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of apalutamide with quizartinib due to the risk of decreased quizartinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Quizartinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ranolazine: (Contraindicated) The concomitant use of apalutamide with ranolazine is contraindicated due to decreased plasma concentrations of ranolazine resulting in decreased efficacy. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and ranolazine is a CYP3A4 substrate. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the plasma concentrations of ranolazine by approximately 95%.
Regorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of regorafenib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of regorafenib and increased plasma concentrations of the active metabolite M-5, which may lead to decreased efficacy. Regorafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased regorafenib exposure by 50% and increased M-5 exposure by 264%.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relacorilant and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease relacorilant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Concomitant use may also increase apalutamide exposure and the risk for apalutamide-related adverse effects. Relacorilant is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor, and apalutamide is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase steady-state apalutamide Cmax and AUC by 38% and 51%, respectively. The steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of relugolix and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease relugolix exposure and compromise the efficacy of relugolix therapy. If concurrent use is unavoidable, increase the relugolix maintenance dose to 240 mg once daily. If apalutamide is discontinued resume the recommended relugolix treatment dose of 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a P-gp and strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent use of another P-gp and strong CYP3A inducer decreased relugolix overall exposure by 55%.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of relugolix and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease relugolix exposure and compromise the efficacy of relugolix therapy. If concurrent use is unavoidable, increase the relugolix maintenance dose to 240 mg once daily. If apalutamide is discontinued resume the recommended relugolix treatment dose of 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a P-gp and strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent use of another P-gp and strong CYP3A inducer decreased relugolix overall exposure by 55%. (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Remibrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of remibrutinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease remibrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Remibrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced remibrutinib overall exposure by 77%.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) An increased dose of repaglinide and increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring may be required if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Repaglinide is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased repaglinide exposure by 32% to 80%.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with apalutamide due to decreased repotrectinib exposure and risk of decreased efficacy. Repotrectinib is a CYP3A substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased repotrectinib overall exposure by 92%.
Revumenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of revumenib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease revumenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additionally, concomitant use may increase exposure to M1, the active metabolite of revumenib, which may increase the risk for adverse effects, such as QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Revumenib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with apalutamide, as the systemic exposure of ribociclib may be decreased resulting in decreased efficacy; consider an alternative treatment with less potential to induce CYP3A. Exposure to apalutamide may also be increased. Ribociclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ribociclib exposure by 89%. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ribociclib with apalutamide, as the systemic exposure of ribociclib may be decreased resulting in decreased efficacy; consider an alternative treatment with less potential to induce CYP3A. Exposure to apalutamide may also be increased. Ribociclib is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ribociclib exposure by 89%. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Rifabutin: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of rifabutin and potential issues of resistance if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Rifabutin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Rilpivirine: (Contraindicated) Concurrent use of apalutamide and rilpivirine is contraindicated; when these drugs are coadministered, there is a potential for treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance. Apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4, which is primarily responsible for the metabolism of rilpivirine. Coadministration may result in decreased rilpivirine serum concentrations, which could cause impaired virologic response to rilpivirine.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of rilzabrutinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Rilzabrutinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced rilzabrutinib overall exposure by 80%.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rimegepant with apalutamide; concurrent use may significantly decrease rimegepant exposure which may result in loss of efficacy. Rimegepant is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of rimegepant with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rimegepant exposure by 80%.
Riociguat: (Moderate) Dosage recommendations for riociguat are not available if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Riociguat is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Strong CYP3A4 inducers may significantly reduce riociguat exposure, but data are not available.
Ripretinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ripretinib with apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease the exposure of ripretinib and its active metabolite (DP-5439), which may decrease ripretinib anti-tumor activity. Ripretinib and DP-5439 are metabolized by CYP3A4 and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ripretinib exposure by 61% and decreased DP-5439 exposure by 57%.
risperiDONE: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in risperidone efficacy during concomitant use of risperidone and apalutamide and increase risperidone dosage as appropriate based on response. For patients receiving long-acting risperidone dosage forms, supplemental oral risperidone may be required. Concomitant use may decrease risperidone exposure. Risperidone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced risperidone overall exposure by 50%.
Ritlecitinib: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in ritlecitinib efficacy during concomitant use of ritlecitinib and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease ritlecitinib exposure. Ritlecitinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced ritlecitinib overall exposure by 0.56-fold.
Ritonavir: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of ritonavir with apalutamide is contraindicated as there is a potential for decreased ritonavir concentrations which may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance; exposure to apalutamide may also increase. Ritonavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer.
Rivaroxaban: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with rivaroxaban due to decreased exposure to rivaroxaban which may reduce efficacy. Rivaroxaban is a CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate. Apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and a weak P-gp inducer. Coadministration with another combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rivaroxaban exposure by up to 50%.
Roflumilast: (Major) Coadministration of roflumilast with apalutamide is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of roflumilast. Roflumilast is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased roflumilast exposure by 80%; exposure to roflumilast N-oxide was decreased by 56%.
Rolapitant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of rolapitant with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of rolapitant. Rolapitant is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased rolapitant exposure by 85%; the mean half-life of rolapitant decreased from 176 hours to 41 hours.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of romidepsin with apalutamide if possible due to decreased plasma concentrations of romidepsin. Romidepsin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The effect of strong CYP3A4 inducers on the exposure of romidepsin is unknown.
Ruxolitinib: (Moderate) Monitor patients frequently and adjust the ruxolitinib dose based on safety and efficacy if coadministered with apalutamide; decreased ruxolitinib exposure is possible. Ruxolitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ruxolitinib Cmax and AUC by 32% and 61%, respectively. The relative exposure to ruxolitinib's active metabolites increased approximately 100%.
Saquinavir: (Major) Coadministration of saquinavir with apalutamide is not recommended as there is a potential for decreased saquinavir concentrations, which may lead to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance; apalutamide exposure may also increase. Saquinavir is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Monitor for increased blood sugars if coadministration of saxagliptin with apalutamide is necessary. Saxagliptin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased saxagliptin exposure by 76%.
Sebetralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sebetralstat and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease sebetralstat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sebetralstat is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sebetralstat overall exposure by 83%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking estrogens with apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used to prevent pregnancy, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Progestins are susceptible to drug interactions with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs such as apalutamide. Concurrent administration of apalutamide with progestins, oral contraceptives, or non-oral combination contraceptives may reduce hormonal concentrations. Progestins are CYP3A4 substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. If the hormone is used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of apalutamide. Monitor hormonal replacement therapy for loss of efficacy while on apalutamide, with dose adjustments as needed. Women taking hormonal replacement and apalutamide should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. This interaction does not apply to vaginal preparations of progesterone (e.g., Crinone, Endometrin).
Selegiline: (Moderate) Use caution if selegiline and apalutamide are used concomitantly. Although apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and selegiline is a CYP3A4 substrate, adequate studies have not been conducted to evaluate its effect, if any, on the effectiveness of selegiline.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selpercatinib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased selpercatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selpercatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased selpercatinib exposure by 87%.
Selumetinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of selumetinib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased selumetinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Selumetinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased selumetinib exposure by 51%.
Sevabertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sevabertinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease sevabertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sevabertinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sevabertinib overall exposure by 79%.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inducers is expected to substantially decrease plasma concentrations of sildenafil. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers.
Siponimod: (Moderate) Concomitant use of siponimod and apalutamide is not recommended for patients with CYP2C9*1/*3 and *2/*3 genotypes due to a significant decrease in siponimod exposure. Use of siponimod with apalutamide is not recommended in any patient if they are also receiving a moderate CYP2C9 inducer. Siponimod is a CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP2C9/strong CYP3A4 dual inducer decreased siponimod exposure by 57%.
Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and apalutamide as use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A and P-gp substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer. Concomitant use of another strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer decreased sirolimus overall exposure by 82%.
Sofosbuvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sofosbuvir with inducers of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP, such as apalutamide. Taking these drugs together may decrease sofosbuvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sofosbuvir with inducers of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP, such as apalutamide. Taking these drugs together may decrease sofosbuvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. (Major) Coadministration of velpatasvir with apalutamide is not recommended due to the potential for loss of antiviral efficacy. Taking these drugs together may significantly decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Sofosbuvir; Velpatasvir; Voxilaprevir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sofosbuvir with inducers of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP, such as apalutamide. Taking these drugs together may decrease sofosbuvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. (Major) Coadministration of velpatasvir with apalutamide is not recommended due to the potential for loss of antiviral efficacy. Taking these drugs together may significantly decrease velpatasvir plasma concentrations, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Velpatasvir is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Major) Coadministration of voxilaprevir with apalutamide is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of voxilaprevir, potentially resulting in loss of antiviral efficacy. Voxilaprevir is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Solifenacin: (Minor) Monitor for decreased efficacy of solifenacin if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Solifenacin is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Studies have not been conducted to evaluate the effect of CYP3A4 inducers on solifenacin, but inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease solifenacin plasma concentrations.
Sonidegib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of sonidegib and apalutamide; sonidegib exposure may be significantly decreased and its efficacy reduced. Sonidegib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean Cmax and AUC of sonidegib by 54% and 72%, respectively.
Sonrotoclax: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sonrotoclax and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease sonrotoclax exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sonrotoclax is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced sonrotoclax overall exposure by 65%.
SORAfenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of sorafenib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of sorafenib. Sorafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased sorafenib exposure by 37%.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in sotagliflozin efficacy during concomitant use of sotagliflozin and apalutamide and adjust therapy as appropriate. Concomitant use may decrease sotagliflozin exposure. Sotagliflozin is a UGT substrate and apalutamide is a UGT inducer. Concomitant use with another UGT inducer reduced sotagliflozin overall exposure by 45%.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of sotorasib and apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease sotorasib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Sotorasib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC of sotorasib by 51%.
Sparsentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sparsentan and apalutamide due to the risk for decreased sparsentan exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Sparsentan is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease sparsentan overall exposure by 47%.
Stiripentol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of stiripentol with apalutamide. If concurrent use is necessary, increase the dose of stiripentol. Coadministration may decrease stiripentol plasma concentrations resulting in a decrease in efficacy. Stiripentol is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2C19; apalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if apalutamide must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
SUNItinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with sunitinib if possible due to decreased exposure to sunitinib which could decrease efficacy. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the daily dose of sunitinib to a maximum of 87.5 mg for patients with GIST or RCC, and to a maximum of 62.5 mg for patients with pNET; monitor carefully for toxicity. Sunitinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased exposure to sunitinib and its primary active metabolite by 46%.
Suvorexant: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of suvorexant if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Suvorexant is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased suvorexant exposure by 77% to 88%.
Suzetrigine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of suzetrigine and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease suzetrigine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Suzetrigine and its active metabolite M6-SUZ are CYP3A substrates and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced suzetrigine and M6-SUZ overall exposure by 93% and 85%, respectively.
Tacrolimus: (Moderate) Measure tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust the dose as clinically appropriate if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Tacrolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly increased tacrolimus clearance.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of taletrectinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease taletrectinib exposure, which may reduce its efficacy. Taletrectinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced taletrectinib overall exposure by 86%.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with tamoxifen due to decreased exposure to tamoxifen which may affect efficacy. Tamoxifen is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of tamoxifen by 86% and 55%, respectively.
Tasimelteon: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tasimelteon with apalutamide due to the potential for a large decrease in tasimelteon exposure resulting in reduced efficacy. Tasimelteon is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased tasimelteon exposure by about 90%.
Tazemetostat: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tazemetostat and apalutamide due to the risk for decreased tazemetostat exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tazemetostat is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tazemetostat overall exposure by 84%.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Closely monitor blood pressure if coadministration of amlodipine with apalutamide is necessary. Amlodipine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine; however, concomitant use may result in decreased plasma concentrations of amlodipine.
Temsirolimus: (Major) Avoid coadministration of temsirolimus with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of temsirolimus. If concomitant use is unavoidable, consider increasing the dose of temsirolimus from 25 mg per week up to 50 mg per week. If apalutamide is discontinued, decrease the dose of temsirolimus to the dose used before initiation of apalutamide. Temsirolimus is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer had no significant effect on the AUC or Cmax of temsirolimus, but decreased the AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite, sirolimus, by 56% and 65%, respectively.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for a decrease in tenofovir alafenamide efficacy during concomitant use of tenofovir alafenamide and apalutamide. Concomitant use may decrease tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and apalutamide is a P-gp and BCRP inducer. Concomitant use with another P-gp inducer reduced tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 55%.
Tezacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Coadministration of ivacaftor with apalutamide is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of ivacaftor. Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure by approximately 9-fold. (Major) Do not administer tezacaftor; ivacaftor and apalutamide together; coadministration may reduce the efficacy of tezacaftor; ivacaftor. Exposure to ivacaftor is significantly decreased and exposure to tezacaftor may be reduced by the concomitant use of apalutamide, a strong CYP3A inducer; both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate). Coadministration of ivacaftor with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased ivacaftor exposure 89%. Tezacaftor exposures can also be expected to decrease significantly during coadministration with strong CYP3A inducers.
Thiotepa: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of thiotepa and apalutamide if possible; increased metabolism to the active thiotepa metabolite may result in increased thiotepa toxicity (e.g., infection, bleeding, skin toxicity). Consider an alternative agent with no or minimal potential to induce CYP3A4. If coadministration is necessary, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of thiotepa toxicity. In vitro, thiotepa is metabolized via CYP3A4 to the active metabolite, TEPA; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
tiaGABine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of tiagabine if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Tiagabine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analyses indicate that tiagabine clearance is 60% greater in patients taking another strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Ticagrelor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of ticagrelor with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of ticagrelor. Ticagrelor is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased ticagrelor exposure by 86%.
Tinidazole: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of tinidazole if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Tinidazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may accelerate the elimination of tinidazole, decreasing plasma concentrations.
Tipranavir: (Contraindicated) Tipranavir is contraindicated for use with apalutamide. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. Tipranavir is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor; coadministration significantly reduces plasma concentrations of tipranavir, leading to a reduction of antiretroviral efficacy and the potential development of viral resistance. Exposure to apalutamide may also increase.
Tivozanib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tivozanib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of tivozanib, which may reduce its efficacy. Tivozanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the overall exposure of tivozanib by 52%.
Tofacitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tofacitinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease tofacitinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tofacitinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced tofacitinib overall exposure by 84%.
Tolvaptan: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of tolvaptan and apalutamide due to the risk for decreased tolvaptan plasma concentrations and reduced efficacy. Tolvaptan is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased tolvaptan exposure by 85%.
Toremifene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of apalutamide with toremifene due to decreased plasma concentrations of toremifene which may result in decreased efficacy. Toremifene is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers lowers steady-state serum concentrations of toremifene.
Torsemide: (Moderate) Monitor diuretic effect and blood pressure if coadministration of torsemide with apalutamide is necessary. Torsemide is a CYP2C9 substrate and apalutamide is a CYP2C9 inducer. Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers increases torsemide clearance and decreases torsemide plasma concentrations.
Trabectedin: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of trabectedin with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased trabectedin exposure. Trabectedin is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the systemic exposure of a single dose of trabectedin by 31% compared to a single dose of trabectedin given alone.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If apalutamide is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate if coadministration of verapamil with apalutamide is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of verapamil. Verapamil is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
traZODone: (Moderate) Consider increasing the trazodone dose based on therapeutic response when coadministered with apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease trazodone exposure. Trazodone is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone.
Tretinoin, ATRA: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin with apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease tretinoin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Triazolam: (Moderate) Monitor for withdrawal symptoms or lack of triazolam efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Triazolam is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of tucatinib and apalutamide due to the risk of decreased tucatinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Additionally, apalutamide-related adverse reactions may increase. Tucatinib is a CYP3A4 and CYP2C8 substrate and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor; apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4/moderate CYP2C8 inducer decreased tucatinib exposure by 50%.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Avoid the coadministration of ubrogepant and apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce the efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in an 80% reduction in ubrogepant exposure.
Ulipristal: (Major) Avoid administration of ulipristal with drugs that induce CYP3A4. Ulipristal is a substrate of CYP3A4 and apalutamide is a CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use may decrease the plasma concentration and effectiveness of ulipristal.
Upadacitinib: (Major) Coadministration of upadacitinib with apalutamide is not recommended as upadacitinib exposure may be decreased leading to reduced therapeutic effect. Upadacitinib is CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concurrent use of a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased upadacitinib exposure by 61%.
Valbenazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of valbenazine and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease the exposure of valbenazine and its active metabolite which may reduce valbenazine efficacy. Valbenazine is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased exposure to valbenazine and its active metabolite by 70% and 80%, respectively.
Valproic Acid, Divalproex Sodium: (Moderate) Monitor valproic acid concentrations and watch for decreased efficacy if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Valproic acid is a CYP2C9 substrate as well as a substrate of UGT1A4 and 2B7. Apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 inducer and may also be a UGT inducer.
Vandetanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vandetanib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vandetanib and increased concentrations of the active metabolite. Vandetanib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the geometric mean AUC of vandetanib by 40%; the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of N-desmethylvandetanib increased by 266% and 414%, respectively.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 82% and 90%, respectively. (Major) Do not administer tezacaftor; ivacaftor and apalutamide together; coadministration may reduce the efficacy of tezacaftor; ivacaftor. Exposure to ivacaftor is significantly decreased and exposure to tezacaftor may be reduced by the concomitant use of apalutamide, a strong CYP3A inducer; both tezacaftor and ivacaftor are CYP3A substrates (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate). Coadministration of ivacaftor with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased ivacaftor exposure 89%. Tezacaftor exposures can also be expected to decrease significantly during coadministration with strong CYP3A inducers.
Vanzacaftor; Tezacaftor; Deutivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Vanzacaftor; tezacaftor; deutivacaftor is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor overall exposure by 82% and 90%, respectively.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vemurafenib with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vemurafenib. If unavoidable, increase to dose of vemurafenib by 240 mg as tolerated. The original dose of vemurafenib may be resumed 2 weeks after apalutamide is discontinued. Vemurafenib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased exposure to vemurafenib by 40%.
Venetoclax: (Major) Avoid coadministration of venetoclax with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of venetoclax. Venetoclax is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased venetoclax exposure by 71%.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vepdegestrant and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease vepdegestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary in patients receiving vepdegestrant 200 mg daily, increase the vepdegestrant dose to 300 mg daily. Vepdegestrant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced vepdegestrant overall exposure by 36%.
Verapamil: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate if coadministration of verapamil with apalutamide is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of verapamil. Verapamil is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Vilazodone: (Moderate) Consider increasing the dose of vilazodone up to 2-fold over 1 to 2 weeks (maximum, 80 mg per day) based on clinical response if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary for more than 14 days. After discontinuation of apalutamide, resume the previous vilazodone dose over 1 to 2 weeks. Vilazodone is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Decreased plasma concentrations of vilazodone are expected if vilazodone is used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inducers.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
vinCRIStine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vincristine with apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vincristine. Vincristine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Voclosporin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voclosporin with apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease voclosporin exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Voclosporin is a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased voclosporin exposure by 87%.
Vonoprazan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of vonoprazan and apalutamide due to decreased plasma concentrations of vonoprazan, which may reduce its efficacy. Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Vonoprazan exposures are predicted to be 80% lower when coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer. (Major) Consider alternatives to clarithromycin if treatment with apalutamide is necessary. Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inhibitor. Apalutamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and strong inducer. Inducers of CYP3A enzymes will decrease plasma concentrations of clarithromycin while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Exposure to apalutamide may also be increased. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with rifabutin. Coadministration with one strong CYP3A4 inhibitor decreased the Cmax of single-dose apalutamide by 22% and the AUC remained similar. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the single-dose apalutamide AUC by 24% but have no effect on Cmax; the steady-state Cmax and AUC are predicted to increase by 38% and 51%, respectively, with this inhibitor. The predicted steady-state exposure of the active moieties (unbound apalutamide plus potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) is predicted to increase by 28%.
Vorapaxar: (Major) Avoid coadministration of vorapaxar and apalutamide due to decreased serum concentrations of vorapaxar. Vorapaxar is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased vorapaxar exposure by 55%; the impact on efficacy for a change in exposure of this magnitude is not known.
Voriconazole: (Contraindicated) Coadministration of voriconazole with apalutamide is contraindicated due to decreased plasma concentrations of voriconazole; exposure to apalutamide may also increase. Voriconazole is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Voriconazole plasma concentrations may be reduced by roughly 95%; doubling the dose of voriconazole did not restore adequate exposure to voriconazole during concomitant use with another strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Vortioxetine: (Major) Consider increasing the dose of vortioxetine (maximum, 3 times the original dose) if coadministration with apalutamide for longer than 14 days is necessary. Vortioxetine is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of voxelotor and apalutamide as concurrent use may decrease voxelotor exposure and lead to reduced efficacy. If coadministration is unavoidable, increase voxelotor dosage to 2,500 mg PO once daily in patients 12 years and older. In patients 4 to 11 years old, weight-based dosage adjustments are recommended; consult product labeling for specific recommendations. Voxelotor is a substrate of CYP3A; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration of voxelotor with a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease voxelotor exposure by up to 40%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with apalutamide is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. Apalutamide is a weak CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A4 inducer and the enantiomers of warfarin are CYP2C9/CYP3A4 substrates.
Zaleplon: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of zaleplon if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Zaleplon is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Although CYP3A4 is normally a minor metabolizing enzyme of zaleplon, coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer reduced zaleplon exposure by approximately 80%. Coadministration with apalutamide could lead to ineffectiveness of zaleplon.
Zanubrutinib: (Major) Avoid the concomitant use of zanubrutinib and apalutamide. Coadministration may result in decreased zanubrutinib exposure and reduced efficacy. Zanubrutinib is a CYP3A4 substrate; apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. The AUC of zanubrutinib was decreased by 93% when coadministered with another strong CYP3A4 inducer.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zidesamtinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease zidesamtinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zidesamtinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ziftomenib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease ziftomenib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Ziftomenib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is estimated to reduce ziftomenib overall exposure by 80%.
Ziprasidone: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of ziprasidone if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary. Ziprasidone is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased ziprasidone exposure by 35%.
Zoliflodacin: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of zoliflodacin and apalutamide is contraindicated due to the risk for decreased zoliflodacin exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zoliflodacin is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to reduce zoliflodacin overall exposure by 56%.
Zolpidem: (Major) Coadministration of zolpidem with apalutamide is not recommended due to decreased plasma concentrations of zolpidem. Zolpidem is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased zolpidem exposure by 73% and significantly reduced the pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem.
Zongertinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zongertinib and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease zongertinib exposure which may reduce its efficacy. If concomitant use is necessary, double the zongertinib dose: from 120 mg to 240 mg in those weighing less than 90 kg, and from 180 mg to 360 mg in those weighing 90 kg or more. Zongertinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zongertinib overall exposure by 63%.
Zonisamide: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of zonisamide if coadministration with apalutamide is necessary; adjust the dose of zonisamide as clinically appropriate. Zonisamide is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with other strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the zonisamide half-life by 8 to 19 hours. These effects are unlikely to be of clinical significance when zonisamide is added to apalutamide therapy; however, changes in zonisamide concentrations may occur if apalutamide is added, dose adjusted, or withdrawn from zonisamide therapy.
Zuranolone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of zuranolone and apalutamide. Concurrent use may decrease zuranolone exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Zuranolone is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced zuranolone overall exposure by 85%.


Adverse Reaction
bone fractures


Bone fracture has been reported in prostate cancer patients who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) in 2 randomized, placebo-controlled trials. Evaluate all patients for fall and bone fracture risk. Monitor and manage patients at risk for a bone fracture according to established treatment guidelines and consider the use of bone-targeted agents. In 2 randomized trials, bone fractures occurred more often with apalutamide plus ADT compared with placebo plus ADT in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (12% vs. 7%; grade 3 or 4, 2.7% vs. 0.8%) and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (9% vs. 6%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5% in each arm). Additionally, falls were reported more often in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus ADT (16%; grade 3 or 4, 1.7%) compared with placebo plus ADT (9%; grade 3 or 4, 0.8%). Falls were not associated with loss of consciousness or seizure and occurred more often in elderly patients. Falls were reported in 10% and 19% of patients aged 65 to 74 years and 75 years and older, respectively, compared with 8% of patients younger than 65 years of age. Following the initiation of apalutamide plus ADT therapy, the median time to onset of bone fracture was 314 days (range, 20 to 953 days) in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and 56 days (range, 2 to 111 days) in patients with metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer.


seizures


Seizures have been reported in 0.4% of prostate cancer patients who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) compared with 0.1% of patients who received placebo plus ADT in pooled results from 2 randomized, placebo-controlled trials. Seizures occurred at 159 to 650 days after the initiation of apalutamide therapy. Permanently discontinue apalutamide in patients who develop seizures. It is not known if anti-epileptic medications will prevent seizures in patients treated with apalutamide. Furthermore, there is no clinical experience in re-administering apalutamide to patients who have experienced a seizure.


asthenia, fatigue


Fatigue/asthenia occurred more often (39% vs. 28%; grade 3, 1.4% vs. 0.3%) in nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer patients who received apalutamide plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) (n = 803) compared with placebo plus ADT (n = 398) in a randomized trial.


arthralgia, muscle cramps


In 2 randomized trials, arthralgia occurred more often with apalutamide plus ADT compared with placebo plus ADT in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (16% vs. 8%) and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (17% vs. 15%; grade 3, less than 1% in each arm). Additionally, muscle cramps/spasms were reported more often in patients with metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus ADT (3.1%) compared with placebo plus ADT (1.9%).


conjunctivitis, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, maculopapular rash, oral ulceration, pruritus, rash, skin erosion, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, stomatitis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, vesicular rash


Rash been reported in 26% of prostate cancer patients who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) compared with 8% of patients who received placebo plus ADT in pooled results from 2 randomized, placebo-controlled trials; grade 3 rash occurred in 6% and 0.5%, respectively. Rash was managed with oral antihistamines and topical or systemic corticosteroids. Macular or maculopapular rash was the most common type, but the term rash also included urticaria, pruritic rash, conjunctivitis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, genital rash, erythematous rash, stomatitis, oral ulceration, blister, pemphigoid, skin erosion, and vesicular rash. Following the initiation of apalutamide plus ADT therapy, the median time to onset of rash was 83 days. In 2 randomized trials, pruritus occurred more often with apalutamide plus ADT compared with placebo plus ADT in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (6% vs. 1.5%) and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (11% vs. 4.6%; grade 3 or 4, 0.2% in each arm). Fatal and life-threatening cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and lichenoid eruption were reported in postmarketing experience with apalutamide. Advise patients of the signs and symptoms of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) such as a prodrome of fever, flu-like symptoms, mucosal lesions, progressive skin rash, or lymphadenopathy. If signs or symptoms of a SCAR occur, interrupt apalutamide therapy until the etiology of the reaction has been determined; consultation with a dermatologist is recommended. If a SCAR or other grade 4 skin reaction is confirmed, permanently discontinue therapy.


anorexia, diarrhea, GI perforation, nausea, weight loss


In 2 randomized trials, diarrhea occurred more often with apalutamide plus ADT compared with placebo plus ADT in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (20% vs. 15%; grade 3 or 4, 1.1% vs. 0.5%) and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (9% vs. 6%). Additionally, decreased appetite/anorexia or hypophagia (12% vs. 9%; grade 3 or 4, 0.1% vs. 0%), nausea (18% vs. 16%), and weight loss (16% vs. 6%; grade 3 or 4, 1.1% vs. 0.3%) were reported more often in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus ADT (n = 803) compared with placebo plus ADT (n = 398). Ulcer/GI perforation resulting in death occurred in 1 patient (0.2%) with metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (n = 524) in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.


edema, penile edema, peripheral edema


Peripheral edema occurred in 11% of patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus ADT (n = 803) compared with 9% of patients who received placebo plus ADT (n = 398) in a randomized trial. The term peripheral edema included peripheral swelling or swelling, generalized or localized edema, genital edema, penile edema, scrotal edema, and lymphedema.


heart failure


Heart failure occurred in 2.2% of patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) (n = 803) compared with 1% of patients who received placebo plus ADT (n = 398) in a randomized trial.


hypertension


In 2 randomized trials, hypertension occurred more often with apalutamide plus ADT compared with placebo plus ADT in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (25% vs. 20%; grade 3 or 4, 14% vs. 12%) and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (18% vs. 16%; grade 3 or 4, 8% and 9%).


hot flashes


In 2 randomized trials, hot flashes/hot flush occurred more often with apalutamide plus ADT compared with placebo plus ADT in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (14% vs. 9%) and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (23% vs. 16%).


cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction


Ischemic cardiovascular events have been reported in prostate cancer patients who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) in 2 randomized, placebo-controlled trials; 0.3% of apalutamide-treated patients died from ischemic cardiovascular events. Monitor for signs and symptoms of ischemic heart disease. Consider discontinuing therapy in patients who experience grade 3 and 4 ischemic events. In 2 randomized trials, ischemic cardiovascular events occurred more often with apalutamide plus ADT compared with placebo plus ADT in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (3.7% vs. 2%) and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (4.4% vs. 1.5%). Death due to ischemic cardiovascular events (n = 3; 0.6%), sudden cardiac death (n = 1; 0.2%), and cardiac arrest (n = 1; 0.2%) occurred in apalutamide-treated patients with metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (n = 524); death due to myocardial infarction occurred in 3 apalutamide-treated patients (0.4%) with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (n = 803).


hypothyroidism


Hypothyroidism was reported in 3.6% to 8% of prostate cancer patients who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) compared with 0.6% to 1.5% of patients who received placebo plus ADT in 2 randomized, placebo-controlled trials. Elevated thyroid-stimulating hormone levels occurred in 25% of apalutamide-treated patients compared with 7% of patients who received placebo in this analysis. Start thyroid replacement therapy or dose reduce apalutamide therapy in patients who develop hypothyroidism.


hematuria


Hematuria led to interruptions of apalutamide therapy or dose reductions in greater than 1% of patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in a randomized clinical trial.


stroke


Cerebrovascular events have been reported in prostate cancer patients who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) in 2 randomized, placebo-controlled trials; 0.2% of apalutamide-treated patients died from these events. Monitor for signs and symptoms of cerebrovascular events. Consider discontinuing therapy in patients who experience grade 3 and 4 cerebrovascular events. Cerebrovascular events occurred more often (2.5% vs. 1%) in nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer patients who received apalutamide plus ADT (n = 803) compared with placebo plus ADT (n = 398) in a randomized trial; death due to a cerebrovascular event occurred in 2 apalutamide-treated patients (0.2%) in this trial. Cerebrovascular events were reported in 1.9% of metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer patients (n = 524) in another randomized trial; 1 apalutamide-treated patient (0.2%) died due to a cerebrovascular accident/stroke.


anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia


In 2 randomized trials, decreased white blood cell count/leukopenia occurred more often with apalutamide plus ADT compared with placebo plus ADT in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (47% vs. 29%; grade 3 or 4, 0.3% vs. 0%) and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (27% vs. 19%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4% and 0.6%). Additionally, anemia (70% vs. 64%; grade 3 or 4, 0.4% and 0.5%) and lymphopenia (41% vs. 21%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8% vs. 1.6%) were reported more often in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus ADT (n = 803) compared with placebo plus ADT (n = 398).


hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia


In 2 randomized trials, hypertriglyceridemia occurred more often with apalutamide plus ADT compared with placebo plus ADT in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (67% vs. 49%; grade 3 or 4, 1.6% vs. 0.8%) and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (17% vs. 12%; grade 3 or 4, 2.5% vs. 2.3%). Additionally, hypercholesterolemia was reported more often in patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus ADT (76%; grade 3 or 4, 0.1%) compared with placebo plus ADT (46%). These values do not represent fasting levels.


hyperglycemia


Hyperglycemia (nonfasting) occurred in 70% of patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus ADT (n = 803) compared with 59% of patients who received placebo plus ADT (n = 398) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or 4 hyperglycemia was reported in 2% and 1% of patients, respectively.


QT prolongation


Mild QT prolongation (QTc interval increased from baseline of 12.4 milliseconds) has been reported following apalutamide 240 mg/day in a multicenter single-arm QT study in 45 patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer. Additionally, apalutamide and its active metabolite exhibited a concentration-dependent increase in QTcF in an exposure-QT analysis.


hyperkalemia


Hyperkalemia occurred in 32% of patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus ADT (n = 803) compared with 22% of patients who received placebo plus ADT (n = 398) in a randomized trial; grade 3 or 4 hyperkalemia was reported in 1.9% and 0.5% of patients, respectively.


dysgeusia


Dysgeusia occurred in 3.2% of patients with metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus ADT (n = 524) compared with 0.6% of patients who received placebo plus ADT (n = 527) in a randomized trial.


nephrotoxicity


Nephrotoxicity/acute kidney injury resulting in death occurred in 2 patients (0.4%) with metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (n = 524) in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.


respiratory arrest


Respiratory arrest/failure resulting in death occurred in 1 patient (0.2%) with metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (n = 524) in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.


infection


Infection leading to death occurred in 7 patients (0.8%) with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (n = 803) in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.


interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis


Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis has been reported with apalutamide therapy; some cases were fatal. ILD/pneumonitis was reported in 0.6% to 1.1% (grade 3, 0.2%) of prostate cancer patients who received apalutamide plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) compared with 0% to 0.4% of patients who received placebo plus ADT in 2 randomized, placebo-controlled trials.


urinary retention


Serious urinary retention was reported in 3.8% of patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who received apalutamide plus androgen-deprivation therapy (n = 803) in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.


infertility


Based on animal data, apalutamide may cause male infertility.


laboratory test interference


Apalutamide can cause laboratory test interference with certain digoxin immunoassays (e.g., Chemiluminescent Microparticle Immunoassays), resulting in falsely elevated digoxin plasma concentration results; notify the laboratory to use an appropriate assay in patients receiving apalutamide and digoxin.


Description

Apalutamide is an androgen receptor inhibitor approved for the treatment of patients with nonmetastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer. Patients treated with apalutamide experienced more falls and fractures in clinical trials than patients who received placebo; patients should be evaluated for risk and treated with bone-targeting agents as appropriate. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions prior to administration.

Mechanism Of Action

Apalutamide is an androgen receptor inhibitor that binds directly to the ligand-binding domain of the androgen receptor. It inhibits androgen receptor nuclear translocation and DNA binding, as well as impeding androgen receptor-mediated transcription. A major metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide, is a less potent inhibitor of the androgen receptor, with one-third the activity of apalutamide in an in vitro transcriptional reporter assay. Apalutamide administration caused decreased tumor cell proliferation and increased apoptosis leading to decreased tumor volume in mouse xenograft models of prostate cancer.

Pharmacokinetics

Apalutamide is administered orally. It is 96% bound to plasma proteins, while the active metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide, is 95% protein bound; protein binding is not concentration dependent. The mean apparent volume of distribution (Vd) at steady-state is approximately 276 L. Apalutamide represents 45% and its active metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide, represents 44% of the total AUC after a single radiolabeled dose. Based on systemic exposure, relative potency, and pharmacokinetic properties, N-desmethyl apalutamide likely contributes to the clinical activity of apalutamide. Apalutamide clearance (CL/F) was 1.3 L/hour after single dosing, and increased to 2 L/hour at steady-state after once-daily dosing, likely due to CYP3A4 auto-induction. The mean half-life is approximately 3 days at steady-state. Up to 70 days after a single oral radiolabeled dose, 65% was recovered in urine (unchanged apalutamide, 1.2%; N-desmethyl apalutamide, 2.7%) and 24% was recovered in feces (unchanged apalutamide, 1.5%; N-desmethyl apalutamide, 2%).
 
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3A4, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, P-gp, BCRP, and OATP1B1
Apalutamide is primarily metabolized by CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 to form its active metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide. After a single dose, CYP2C8 plays a larger role in metabolism (58%) than CYP3A4 (13%); however, at steady-state, the contributions of CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 are 40% and 37%, respectively. Apalutamide is a substrate of CYP2C8 and CYP3A4. Apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide are also P-gp substrates; however, because apalutamide is completely absorbed after oral administration, P-gp does not limit absorption, and induction or inhibition of P-gp is not expected to affect the bioavailability of apalutamide. In vitro, apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide are moderate-to-strong CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 inducers, moderate CYP2B6 and CYP2C8 inhibitors, and weak inhibitors of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4. Apalutamide is also a P-gp, BCRP, and OATP1B1 inducer. In vitro, apalutamide and N-desmethyl apalutamide inhibit organic cation transporter 2 (OCT2), organic anion transporter 3 (OAT3) and multidrug and toxin extrusions (MATEs), and do not inhibit organic anion transporter 1. Clinically significant interactions are expected with drugs that are strong CYP3A4 or strong CYP2C8 inhibitors and inducers and also those drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, P-gp, BRCP, and OATP1B1.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The mean absolute oral bioavailability (F) of apalutamide was approximately 100%. The AUC and Cmax of apalutamide increased proportionally following repeated once-daily dosing of 30 mg to 480 mg. After administration of the recommended dosage (240 mg once daily), the mean accumulation ratio was approximately 5-fold. The Cmax of apalutamide at steady-state was 6 mcg/mL (standard deviation (SD), 1.7 mcg/mL) and the AUC was 100 mcg x h/mL (SD, 32 mcg x hour/mL). The median time to reach peak plasma concentration (Tmax) was 2 hours (range, 1 to 5 hours).
 
The Cmax of active metabolite, N-desmethyl apalutamide, was 5.9 mcg/mL (SD, 1 mcg/mL) and AUC was 124 mcg x hour/mL (SD, 23 mcg x hour/mL) at steady state after the recommended dosage. The mean AUC metabolite/parent drug ratio following repeat dose administration was 1.3.
 
Administration of apalutamide to healthy subjects under fasting conditions and with a high-fat meal (55% to 60% fat; 25% to 28% carbohydrates; 15% to 17% protein) did not result in clinically significant changes in Cmax and AUC. The Tmax was delayed by approximately 2 hours with food.
 
Oral administration of four 60-mg apalutamide tablets dispersed in applesauce resulted in no clinically relevant changes in Cmax and AUC when compared to administration of four intact 60-mg tablets under fasting conditions.

Hepatic Impairment

Mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B) does not affect the pharmacokinetics of apalutamide or N-desmethyl apalutamide. The AUC for the active moieties (sum of unbound apalutamide plus the potency-adjusted unbound N-desmethyl apalutamide) increased 2.1-fold in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) compared to subjects with normal hepatic function.

Renal Impairment

Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2, estimated by the MDRD equation) does not affect the pharmacokinetics of apalutamide. The effect of severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (ESRD; eGFR less than or equal to 29 mL/min/1.73 m2, MDRD) on apalutamide pharmacokinetics is unknown.

Geriatric

Age (18 years to 94 years) does not affect the pharmacokinetics of apalutamide.

Ethnic Differences

Ethnicity (Black, non-Japanese Asian, Japanese) does not affect the pharmacokinetics of apalutamide.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.

Oral Administration
Oral Solid Formulations


Apalutamide tablets should be swallowed whole; do not crush or split.
May be taken with or without food.


Extemporaneous Compounding-Oral

Extemporaneous compounding instructions for apalutamide as a solution or in applesauce (oral administration):
Place the entire apalutamide dose or apalutamide tablet(s) in a cup; do not crush or split the tablet(s).
Add approximately 2 teaspoons (10 mL) of noncarbonated water for one 240-mg tablet, or 4 teaspoons (20 mL) of noncarbonated water for 60-mg tablets (doses of 120 mg, 180 mg, or 240 mg); make sure the tablet(s) are completely immersed.
When the tablet(s) are broken up and spread out (about 2 minutes), stir the mixture.
Add 2 tablespoons (30 mL) of orange juice, applesauce, or additional water and stir the mixture. Swallow immediately.
Rinse the cup with enough water to make sure the entire dose is taken and drink it immediately.
After mixing with water, orange juice, or apple juice, do not store apalutamide for later use.
 
Extemporaneous compounding instructions for apalutamide solution (feeding tube administration, 8 French or greater):
240-mg tablet: Place one whole apalutamide 240-mg tablet in the barrel of a syringe (at least 20 mL); draw 10 mL of noncarbonated water into the syringe.
60-mg tablets (doses of 120 mg, 180 mg, or 240 mg): Place the entire prescribed dose of 60-mg tablets in the barrel of a syringe (at least 50 mL); draw 20 mL of noncarbonated water into the syringe.
Wait 10 minutes, and then vigorously shake the syringe to completely disperse the contents.
Immediately administer through the feeding tube.
Refill the syringe with noncarbonated water and administer; repeat until no tablet residue is left in the syringe or feeding tube.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

240 mg by mouth once daily.

Geriatric

240 mg by mouth once daily.

Adolescents

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Children

Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Forms

Erleada 240mg Tablet

ERLEADA 60mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment


Child-Pugh Class A or B: No dosage adjustment is necessary.
Child-Pugh Class C: Reduce the dose of apalutamide to 120 mg once daily.


Renal Impairment

Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.

© 2026 Elsevier