=== Avapritinib — Drug Information (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productId 5189)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Avapritinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets KIT D816V and platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) mutations as well as multiple KIT exon 11, 11/17, and 17 mutations.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 300 mg/day PO.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): amnesia, confusion, delirium, dementia, drowsiness, dysarthria, encephalopathy, impaired cognition, memory impairment, agitation, anxiety, depression, dysphoria, irritability, suicidal ideation, hematoma, intracranial bleeding, subdural hematoma, bleeding, epistaxis, gi bleeding, gi perforation, retinal hemorrhage, ascites, blepharedema, edema, peripheral edema, ptosis, testicular swelling, cough

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Avapritinib is not recommended in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM) or indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM) who have platelet counts less than 50,000 cells/mm3 at baseline. In patients with AdvSM, monitor platelet counts at baseline and every 2 weeks for the first 8 weeks... Patient counseling: Advise patients to avoid or limit exposure to direct sunlight, sunlamps, and other sources of ultraviolet radiation during treatment and for 1 week after stopping treatment. Emetic risk: Moderate/High

AVAPRITINIB

Close

Brand Names
Indication Specific Dosing
Contraindications And Precaution
Pregnancy And Lactation
Interactions
Adverse Reaction
Description
Mechanism Of Action
Pharmacokinetics
Administration
Maximum Dosage Limits
Dosage Forms
Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Drug Information Provided by Elsevier

This information reflects approved US FDA prescribing information and may not reflect prescribing information in your country. Please consult a drug reference applicable to your country.

Brand Names

AYVAKIT

Indication Specific Dosing

For the treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST)

For the treatment of unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) with platelet-derived growth factor-alpha (PDGFRA) exon 18 mutation, including PDGFRA D842V mutations
Oral dosage
Adults


300 mg orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. Treatment with avapritinib resulted in an overall response rate of 84% (complete response [CR], 7%) in GIST patients with PDGFRA exon 18 mutations other than D842V (n = 43) in a multicenter, noncomparative trial; the median duration was not reached, but 61% remained in response after 6 months. Treatment with avapritinib resulted in an overall response rate of 89% (complete response [CR], 8%) in GIST patients with PDGFRA D842V mutations (n = 38); the median duration was not reached, but 59% remained in response after 6 months.


For the treatment of systemic mastocytosis

For the treatment of advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM) including aggressive systemic mastocytosis (ASM), systemic mastocytosis with associated hematological neoplasm (SM-AHN), and mast cell leukemia
Oral dosage
Adults


200 mg PO once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The overall response rate was 57% in 53 patients with AdvSM (ASM, 100% [n = 2]; SM-AHN, 58% [n = 40]; mast cell leukemia, 45% [n = 11]) who received avapritinib up to 200 mg daily in a pooled analysis from a dose-escalation (EXPLORER) trial and a phase 2 (PATHFINDER) trial; 28% of patients had a complete remission with full or partial hematologic recovery. At a median follow-up time of 11.6 months, the median duration of response and time to response were 38.3 months and 2.1 months, respectively. In this analysis, 94% of patients had a D816V mutation; 66% of patients had received prior antineoplastic therapy and 47% of patients had received prior midostaurin therapy.


For the treatment of indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM)
Oral dosage
Adults


25 mg PO once daily. The dose may be increased to 50 mg PO once daily as clinically indicated following at least 6 months of treatment. The mean change in ISM Symptom Assessment Form (ISM-SAF) total symptom score (TSS) was significantly improved in patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis with moderate to severe symptoms following at least 2 prior symptom directed therapies who received avapritinib (25 mg/day) plus best supportive care (BSC) compared with placebo plus BSC (-15.33 vs. -9.64; difference, -5.69) in a randomized (2:1), double-blind, phase 3 (PIONEER) trial (n = 212). A 50% or greater reduction in ISM-SAF TSS score was achieved in 25% of patients in the avapritinib plus BSC arm compared with 10% of patients in the placebo plus BSC arm. Additionally, efficacy results related to mast cell burden, including percentage of patients with a 50% or greater reduction in serum tryptase levels, peripheral blood KIT D816V allele fraction (or undetectable), and bone marrow mast cells (or no aggregates), were significantly improved at week 24 in patients who received avapritinib plus BSC compared with placebo plus BSC. Following at least 6 months of treatment at 25 mg once daily, a dose increase to 50 mg once daily was permitted for purposes of disease control. Patients who received the increased dose had reductions in ISM-SAF TSS, KIT D816V allele fraction, and tryptas.


Contraindications And Precaution
Drug Interactions

The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.

thrombocytopenia


Monitor patients with thrombocytopenia closely for signs or symptoms of intracranial hemorrhage (e.g., severe headache, vision changes, or altered mental status); these patients may be at increased risk. Avapritinib is not recommended in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM) or indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM) who have platelet counts less than 50,000 cells/mm3 at baseline. In patients with AdvSM, monitor platelet counts at baseline and every 2 weeks for the first 8 weeks; thereafter, monitor at least every 2 weeks if platelet counts are less than 75,000 cells/mm3, every 4 weeks if platelet counts are between 75,000 to 100,000 cells/mm3, and as clinically indicated if platelet counts are greater than 100,000 cells/mm3. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, platelet support, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients with AdvSM who develop thrombocytopenia. Permanently discontinue avapritinib therapy in patients who develop intracranial bleeding.


Hypersensitivity

This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.

aneurysm, stroke


Patients with a history of vascular aneurysm, intracranial bleeding, or cerebrovascular accident/stroke within the prior year, thrombocytopenia, or who are receiving concomitant anticoagulant therapy may be at increased risk for developing intracranial bleeding with avapritinib therapy. Monitor patients closely for signs or symptoms of intracranial hemorrhage (e.g., severe headache, vision changes, or altered mental status). Permanently discontinue avapritinib therapy in patients who develop intracranial bleeding.


activities requiring coordination and concentration, driving or operating machinery


Advise patients to avoid driving or operating machinery or performing other dangerous duties or activities requiring coordination and concentration if they experience cognitive adverse reaction related to avapritinib therapy (e.g., memory impairment, confusion, somnolence) and altered or decreased consciousness or coordination. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if cognitive symptoms occur.


Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure


Reduce the dose of avapritinib for patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) due to increased avapritinib exposure which may increase the incidence of treatment-related adverse reactions; data are not available for patients with hepatic failure.


pregnancy


Based on data from animal studies and its mechanism of action, avapritinib may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. There are no available human data on its use during pregnancy. In animal studies, oral administration of avapritinib to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in teratogenicity and embryotoxicity at exposure levels approximately 31.4, 6.3, and 2.7 times the human exposure based on AUC at the 25 mg, 200 mg, and 300 mg dose, respectively.


people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk


Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with avapritinib treatment. Avapritinib may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking avapritinib and for 6 weeks after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during avapritinib treatment and for 6 weeks after the last dose. Based on data from animal studies, avapritinib may impair male and female fertility; these effects were not reversible within a 2-month recovery period.


breast-feeding


Advise patients to avoid breast-feeding during avapritinib treatment and for 2 weeks after the last dose because of the potential for serious adverse effects in the exposed child. There are no data on the presence of avapritinib or its metabolites in human milk, its effects on the breast-fed child, or its effect on milk production.


Pregnancy And Lactation


Based on data from animal studies and its mechanism of action, avapritinib may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy. There are no available human data on its use during pregnancy. In animal studies, oral administration of avapritinib to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in teratogenicity and embryotoxicity at exposure levels approximately 31.4, 6.3, and 2.7 times the human exposure based on AUC at the 25 mg, 200 mg, and 300 mg dose, respectively.


Interactions

Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with adagrasib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with amobarbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and amobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with apalutamide due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with a 3-day regimen of oral aprepitant due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and the 3-day oral aprepitant regimen acts as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state. Single oral doses of aprepitant and IV doses of fosaprepitant have not been shown to alter concentrations of CYP3A4 substrates.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with butalbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with atazanavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with atazanavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state. (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with avacopan due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with berotralstat due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with bexarotene due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with lenacapavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with bosentan due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with butalbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with butalbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with butalbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with butalbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and butalbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with carbamazepine due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and carbamazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with cenobamate due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ceritinib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with chloramphenicol due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ciprofloxacin due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with conivaptan due to the increased risk of avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210%.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with crizotinib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with cyclosporine due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cyclosporine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with dabrafenib due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with darunavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state. (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with darunavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state. (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with darunavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with diltiazem due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Dronedarone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with dronedarone due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with duvelisib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with efavirenz due to the risk of a decrease in the efficacy of avapritinib. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with efavirenz is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with efavirenz due to the risk of a decrease in the efficacy of avapritinib. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with efavirenz is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with efavirenz due to the risk of a decrease in the efficacy of avapritinib. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and efavirenz is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with efavirenz is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with elagolix due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak-to-moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with elagolix due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and elagolix is a weak-to-moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with cobicistat due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with encorafenib due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inducer decreased the overall exposure and peak of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ensitrelvir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with enzalutamide due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with erythromycin due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with eslicarbazepine due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with etravirine due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with fedratinib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with fexinidazole due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure and peak of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with fluconazole due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with fluconazole is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with fluvoxamine due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with fosamprenavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with fosphenytoin due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and fosphenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during avapritinib treatment due to the risk for increased avapritinib exposure and adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with idelalisib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with imatinib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with isavuconazonium due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with itraconazole due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with itraconazole is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with oral lefamulin due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and oral lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; an interaction is not expected with intravenous lefamulin. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with lenacapavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with letermovir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avoid concomitant use in patients also receiving cyclosporine because the magnitude of the interaction may be increased. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor; however, the combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ketoconazole due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with lonafarnib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ritonavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with lorlatinib due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with lumacaftor; ivacaftor due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and lumacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with methohexital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and methohexital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with mifepristone due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state. The clinical significance of this interaction with the short-term use of mifepristone for termination of pregnancy is unknown.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with mitotane due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Modafinil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with modafinil due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and modafinil is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with nafcillin due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with nefazodone due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with nelfinavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with netupitant due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with nilotinib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ritonavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with nirogacestat due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with rifabutin due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Pacritinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with pacritinib due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure and peak of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with pentobarbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and pentobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with pexidartinib due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with phenobarbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with phenobarbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenobarbital is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with phenytoin due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with posaconazole due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with primidone due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and primidone is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with relacorilant due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with repotrectinib due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure and peak of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avapritinib with ribociclib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use with ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day or less is necessary, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Coadministration with another strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall steady-state exposure of avapritinib by 600% and 210%, respectively.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of avapritinib with ribociclib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use with ribociclib at a dose of 400 mg/day or less is necessary, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of at least 600 mg/day and a moderate CYP3A inhibitor at a dose of 400 mg/day. Coadministration with another strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall steady-state exposure of avapritinib by 600% and 210%, respectively.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with rifabutin due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with rifampin due to the risk of a decrease in the efficacy of avapritinib. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with rifampin decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with rifapentine due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with rilzabrutinib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ritlecitinib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with ritonavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with saquinavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with secobarbital due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and secobarbital is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) If hormonal contraception containing estrogen is necessary while receiving avapritinib, use a formulation containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol or less unless a higher dose is necessary. Concomitant use may increase exposure of ethinyl estradiol, which may increase the risk of ethinyl estradiol-related adverse reactions. Coadministration of avapritinib with an oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.15 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg) increased the mean AUC and Cmax ratios of ethinyl estradiol to1.15 and 1.46, respectively, compared to ethinyl estradiol alone.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with sotorasib due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another moderate CYP3A4 inducer is predicted to decrease the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 62% and 55%, respectively.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with St. John's Wort due to the risk of decreased avapritinib efficacy. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A4 inducer. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inducer decreased the AUC and Cmax of avapritinib by 92% and 74%, respectively.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with tipranavir due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with verapamil due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with tucatinib due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with verapamil due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with clarithromycin due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with voriconazole due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. Avapritinib is a CYP3A4 substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Coadministration with another strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is predicted to increase the AUC of avapritinib by 600% at steady-state.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid coadministration of avapritinib with voxelotor due to the risk of increased avapritinib-related adverse reactions. If concurrent use is unavoidable, reduce the starting dose of avapritinib from 300 mg PO once daily to 100 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or from 200 mg PO once daily to 50 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Avapritinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Coadministration of avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily with another moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of avapritinib by 210% at steady-state.


Adverse Reaction
amnesia, confusion, delirium, dementia, drowsiness, dysarthria, encephalopathy, impaired cognition, memory impairment


Cognitive adverse reactions occurred in 33% of patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM), or indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM) who received avapritinib (30 to 600 mg/day) in a pooled analysis of 5 clinical trials (n = 995). Therapy interruption, dose reduction, or discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop cognitive effects. Cognitive effects (41%; grade 3 or higher, 5%) including memory impairment (21%; grade 3, less than 1%), cognitive disorder/impaired cognition (12%; grade 3, 1.2%), confusion/confusional state (6%; grade 3, less than 1%), amnesia (3%; grade 3, less than 1%), somnolence/drowsiness (2%), and speech disorder/dysarthria (2%) occurred in patients with GIST who received avapritinib in clinical trials (n = 601). Additionally, cognitive adverse reactions (28%; grade 3 or higher, 3%) including memory impairment (16%), impaired cognition (10%; grade 3, less than 1%), and confusion (6%; grade 3, less than 1%) were reported in patients with AdvSM who received avapritinib in clinical trials (n = 148). Cognitive adverse reactions occurred in 7.8% (grade 3, less than 1%) of patients with ISM who received avapritinib plus best supportive care (n = 246) in a randomized trial. In ISM patients, the median time to onset of the first cognitive adverse reaction was 2.3 (range, 0 to 5.4 months) months and the median time to improvement to grade 1 or less was 2.1 (range. 0.4 to 2.1) months. The median times to onset of the first cognitive adverse reaction were 8.4 weeks (range, 1 day to 4 years) in patients with GIST and 13.3 weeks (range, 1 day to 1.8 years) in patients with AdvSM. In patients with GIST or AdvSM who developed grade 2 or higher adverse events, the median times to resolution to grade 1 or less were 7.9 weeks and 8.1 weeks in patients with GIST or AdvSM, respectively. Cognitive impairment occurred in 48% (grade 3 or 4, 4.9%) of patients with unresectable or metastatic GIST who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204). Cognitive impairment included memory impairment, cognitive disorder, confusional state, disturbance in attention, amnesia, mental impairment, mental status changes, encephalopathy, dementia, abnormal thinking, and mental disorder. Cognitive effects were reported in 14% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients with AdvSM who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80). Cognitive effects included memory impairment, cognitive disorder, confusional state, delirium, and disorientation. Serious encephalopathy occurred in 2% of avapritinib-treated AdvSM patients.


dizziness


In clinical trials, dizziness occurred in 22% (grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204), 13% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80), and 13% of patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 25 mg/day plus best supportive care (n = 141).


insomnia


Sleep disorders (e.g., insomnia and somnolence) occurred in 16% of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) in a multicenter, noncomparative trial. In clinical trials, insomnia was reported in 6% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80) and 6% of patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 25 mg/day plus best supportive care (n = 141).


agitation, anxiety, depression, dysphoria, irritability, suicidal ideation


Mood disorders (e.g., agitation, anxiety, depression, dysphoria, irritability, nervousness, personality change, and suicidal ideation) occurred in 13% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) in a multicenter, noncomparative trial.


heart failure


Heart failure (2.5%) and congestive heart failure (1.3%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80).


flushing, hot flashes


Flushing (3.8%) and hot flashes/flush (2.5%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80). Flushing also occurred in 11% of patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 25 mg/day plus best supportive care (n = 141) in a randomized trial.


dysgeusia


In clinical trials, taste effects (i.e., dysgeusia and/or ageusia) occurred in 15% of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) and 13% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80).


headache


In clinical trials, headache occurred in 17% (grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) and 15% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80).


hematoma, intracranial bleeding, subdural hematoma


Intracranial bleeding (e.g., subdural hematoma and cerebral hemorrhage) occurred in 2.9% of patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST; n = 601) or advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM; n = 148) who received avapritinib (30 to 600 mg/day) in a pooled analysis of 4 clinical trials; fatal events were reported in less than 1% of patients. No patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM) treated with avapritinib (n = 246) experienced intracranial bleeding in a clinical trial. Monitor patients closely for neurological signs or symptoms of intracranial hemorrhage. Discontinue avapritinib therapy in patients who develop an intracranial hemorrhage. Intracranial bleeding occurred in 1.1% (grade 3 or higher, 0.7%) of patients with GIST who received avapritinib in clinical trials (n = 267). The time to onset of intracranial bleeding event reactions occurred at 1.7 to 19.3 months after avapritinib was started. Additionally, intracranial bleeding (3.8%) and subdural hematoma (4%) were reported in patients with AdvSM who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80). Hematoma (e.g., contusion and pelvic hematoma) occurred in 6% of patients with ISM who received avapritinib 25 mg/day plus best supportive care (n = 141) in a randomized trial.


bleeding, epistaxis, GI bleeding, GI perforation, retinal hemorrhage


Serious GI bleeding (2%) and fatal tumor hemorrhage (1%) occurred in patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204). GI bleeding (1.3%), GI perforation of the large intestine (1.3%), and epistaxis (11%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80). Bleeding (e.g., epistaxis, gingival bleeding, hematochezia, rectal hemorrhage, retinal hemorrhage) occurred in 5% of patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 25 mg/day plus best supportive care (n = 141) in a randomized trial.


ascites, blepharedema, edema, peripheral edema, ptosis, testicular swelling


In clinical trials, edema occurred in 72% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) and 79% (grade 3 or 4, 5%) of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM) who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80). Ascites was reported in 5% of patients with AdvSM. The term edema included face swelling, conjunctival/eye edema, blepharedema, orbital/periorbital edema, mouth edema, pharyngeal edema, peripheral edema/swelling, testicular swelling/edema. Eye edema including periorbital/orbital edema, eye swelling, eyelid edema/swelling, and eyelid ptosis (13%), peripheral edema (12%), and face edema including (7%) occurred in patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 25 mg/day plus best supportive care (n = 141) in a randomized trial.


dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting


Nausea (64%; grade 3 or 4, 2.5%), vomiting (38%; grade 3 or 4, 2%), and dyspepsia (16%) occurred in patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204). Additionally, nausea (24%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) and vomiting (18%; grade 3 or 4, 3%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80).


abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea


Diarrhea (37%; grade 3 or 4, 4.9%), abdominal pain (31%; grade 3 or 4, 6%), and constipation (23%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%) occurred in patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204). Additionally, diarrhea (28%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), abdominal pain (14%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), and constipation (11%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80).


anorexia, weight loss


In clinical trials, anorexia/decreased appetite occurred in 38% (grade 3 or 4, 2.9%) of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) and 8% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80). Weight loss was reported in 13% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients with GIST.


erythema, maculopapular rash, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), pruritus, rash


In clinical trials, rash (e.g., maculopapular rash and erythematous rash/erythema) occurred in 23% (grade 3 or 4, 2.1%) of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204), 8% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM) who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80), and 6% of patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 25 mg/day plus best supportive care (n = 141). Palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) was reported in 1% of patients with GIST. Pruritus occurred in 8% of patients with AdvSM.


alopecia, hair discoloration


Hair discoloration/hair color changes (21%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) and alopecia (13%) occurred in patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204). Additionally, hair color changes (6%) and alopecia (9%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80).


lacrimation


In clinical trials, increased lacrimation occurred in 33% of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) and 9% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80).


cough, dyspnea, pleural effusion


Dyspnea (17%; grade 3 or 4, 2.5%) and pleural effusion (12%; grade 3 or 4, 2%) occurred in patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day treated with avapritinib in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204). Additionally, dyspnea (9%), cough (2.5%), and serious pleural effusion (3%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80).


asthenia, fatigue


In clinical trials, fatigue/asthenia occurred in 61% (grade 3 or 4, 9%) of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) and 23% (grade 3 or 4, 4%) of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80).


fever, infection


Serious infection including pneumonia (3%) and fatal sepsis (1%) and fever (14%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) occurred in patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204). Additionally, upper respiratory tract infection (6%), urinary tract infection (6%), herpes zoster (2.5%), serious pneumonia (3%), and fever (2%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80). Respiratory tract infection (e.g., pneumonia and bronchitis) occurred in 8% of patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 25 mg/day plus best supportive care (n = 141) in a randomized trial.


hypertension, hypotension


In clinical trials, hypertension occurred in 8% of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) and 3.8% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM) who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80). Hypotension was reported in 3.8% of patients with AdvSM.


hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism


Thyroid disorders (hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism) occurred in 3% of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204).


anemia, leukopenia, lymphocytosis, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia


Hematologic adverse events have been reported with avapritinib therapy in clinical trials. In patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM), monitor platelet counts at baseline, every 2 weeks for the first 8 weeks, and then every 2 weeks (or more frequently as clinically indicated) if values are less than 75 x 109 cells/L, every 4 weeks if values are between 75 and 100 x 109 cells/L, and as clinically indicated if values are greater than 100 x 109 cells/L. Therapy interruption, dose reduction, and/or discontinuation may be necessary in patients with AdvSM who develop thrombocytopenia. Consider platelet support if platelet counts do not recover to more than 50 x 109 cells/L. Hematologic parameters that worsened from baseline including decreased hemoglobin level/anemia (81%; grade 3 or 4, 28%), decreased leukocytes/leukopenia (62%; grade 3 or 4, 5%), decreased neutrophil count/neutropenia (43%; grade 3 or 4, 6%), and decreased platelet count/thrombocytopenia (27%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%) occurred in patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204). Additionally, anemia (55%; grade 3 or 4, 23%), decreased lymphocyte count/lymphopenia (34%; grade 3 or 4, 11%), neutropenia (54%; grade 3 or 4, 25%), thrombocytopenia (64%; grade 3 or 4, 21%), and increased lymphocyte count/lymphocytosis (10%) that worsened from baseline were reported in patients with AdvSM who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80).


cholelithiasis, elevated hepatic enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia


Increased bilirubin level/hyperbilirubinemia (69%; grade 3 or 4, 9%) and elevated hepatic enzymes including increased AST (51%; grade 3 or 4, 1.5%), ALT (19%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%), and alkaline phosphatase (14%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) levels that worsened from baseline occurred in patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204). Additionally, hyperbilirubinemia (41%; grade 3 or 4, 3%); increased AST (38%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), ALT (18%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), and alkaline phosphatase (24%; grade 3 or 4, 5%) levels; and cholelithiasis (1.3%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80). Increased transaminase (6%) and alkaline phosphatase (6%) levels occurred in patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 25 mg/day plus best supportive care (n = 141) in a randomized trial.


hypoalbuminemia


In clinical trials, decreased albumin level/hypoalbuminemia that worsened from baseline occurred in 31% (grade 3 or 4, 2%) of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) and 15% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80).


prolonged bleeding time


In clinical trials, prolonged bleeding time including increased activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) from baseline occurred in 13% of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) and 14% (grade 3 or 4, 1%) of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80). Increased INR from baseline was reported in 24% (grade 3 or 4, 0.6%) of patients with GIST.


nephrotoxicity


In clinical trials, nephrotoxicity, specifically serious acute kidney injury, occurred in 2% of patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day (n = 204) and 2% of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM) who received avapritinib 200 mg/day (n = 80). Additionally, increased creatinine levels from baseline were reported in 29% and 20% of avapritinib-treated patients with GIST and AdvSM, respectively.


hyperkalemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia


Electrolyte abnormalities that worsened from baseline including decreased phosphate level/hypophosphatemia (49%; grade 3 or 4, 13%), decreased potassium level/hypokalemia (34%; grade 3 or 4, 6%), decreased magnesium level/hypomagnesemia (29%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), and decreased sodium level/hyponatremia (28%; grade 3 or 4, 7%) occurred in patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor who received avapritinib 300 or 400 mg/day in a multicenter, noncomparative trial (n = 204). Additionally, decreased calcium level/hypocalcemia (50%; grade 3 or 4, 3%), hypokalemia (26%; grade 3 or 4, 4%), hyponatremia (18%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), hypomagnesemia (14%; grade 3 or 4, 1%), increased potassium level/hyperkalemia (11%), and hypophosphatemia (9%) that worsened from baseline were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80).


arthralgia


Arthralgia (10%; grade 3 or 4, 1%) and extremity pain (6%) were reported in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib 200 mg/day in 2 clinical trials (n = 80).


photosensitivity


Photosensitivity was reported in 2.5% of patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor or advanced systemic mastocytosis who received avapritinib in a pooled safety analysis (n = 1,049). Advise patients to wear protective clothing and use broad-spectrum sunscreen during and for 1 week after therapy.


infertility


Based on data from animal studies, avapritinib may cause male and female infertility; these effects were not reversible within a 2-month recovery period.


Description

Avapritinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets KIT D816V and platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) mutations as well as multiple KIT exon 11, 11/17, and 17 mutations. It is indicated in adults with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) harboring a PDGFRA exon 18 mutation, including PDGFRA D842V mutations. Avapritinib is also indicated in adults with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM) including aggressive systemic mastocytosis, systemic mastocytosis with associated hematological neoplasm, and mast cell leukemia and adults with indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM). Use is not recommended in patients with AdvSM or ISM who have platelet counts less than 50 x 109 cell/L. Intracranial hemorrhage and cognitive effects have been reported with avapritinib therapy.

Mechanism Of Action

Avapritinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets KIT D816V and platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) mutations (e.g., PDGFRA D842V mutants) and multiple KIT exon 11, 11/17, and 17 mutants at half-maximal inhibitory concentrations (IC50) of less than 25 nanomolar. Certain mutations in PDGFRA and KIT can result in the autophosphorylation and constitutive activation of these receptors which can contribute to tumor cell proliferation. Other potential targets for avapritinib include wild type KIT, PDGFR beta, and CSFR1. In cellular assays, avapritinib inhibited the autophosphorylation of KIT D816V and PDGFRA D842V with IC50 values of 4 and 30 nanomolar, respectively. Avapritinib inhibits KIT D816V at concentrations about 48-times lower than wild-type KIT. Additionally, proliferation of KIT-mutant cell lines including murine mastocytoma cells and human mast cell leukemia cells was inhibited by avapritinib; inhibitory activity was also observed in a xenograft model of murine mastocytoma with KIT exon 17 mutation. Avapritinib exhibited antitumor activity in mice implanted with an imatinib-resistant patient-derived xenograft model of human GIST with activating KIT exon 11/17 mutations.

Pharmacokinetics

Avapritinib is administered orally. It is 98.8% protein-bound in vitro, independent of concentration; the blood-to-plasma ratio is 0.95. At recommended doses, the mean apparent volumes of distribution are 1,310 L (coefficient of variation (CV), 51.5%) in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), 1,900 L (CV, 43.2%) in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM), and 1,400 L (CV, 59.1%) in patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM); the steady-state mean apparent oral clearances of avapritinib are 21.8 (CV, 54.9%), 40.3 (CV, 86%), and 21.6 (CV, 58.1%) L/hour, respectively. Following a single dose of avapritinib, the mean plasma elimination half-lives of avapritinib were 32 to 57 hours in patients with GIST, 20 to 39 hours in patients with AdvSM, and 38 to 45 hours in patients with ISM. Avapritinib is primarily metabolized in the liver by CYP3A4/5. After a single radiolabeled oral avapritinib dose of approximately 310 mg to healthy subjects, unchanged avapritinib (49%) and its metabolites M690 (hydroxy glucuronide catalyzed mainly by UGT1A3; 35%) and M499 (oxidative deamination; 14%) were the major circulating compounds; 70% of radioactivity was recovered in feces (11% unchanged) and 18% in urine (0.23% unchanged). After administration of avapritinib 300 mg once daily, the steady-state AUC of M499 is approximately 80% of the AUC of avapritinib; M499 is not likely to contribute to efficacy at the recommended dose of avapritinib.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes or transporters: CYP3A, CYP2C9, P-gp, BCRP, MATE1, MATE2K, BSEP
Avapritinib is a substrate of CYP3A4/5; it is also a CYP2C9 substrate to a lesser extent in vitro. In vitro, avapritinib is also a time-dependent CYP3A inhibitor, a CYP2C9 inhibitor, and a CYP3A inducer. It is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST); coadministration of avapritinib may increase the exposure of CYP3A substrates. It additionally inhibits P-gp, intestinal BCRP, MATE1, MATE2K, and BSEP in vitro. Metabolite M499 inhibits CYP3A, CYP2C8, and CYP2C9; the effect of M499 on transporter systems is unknown.

Route-Specific Pharmacokinetics
Oral Route

The steady-state geometric mean Cmax and AUC(0-24h) values were 813 (CV, 52%) nanogram/mL and 15,400 (CV, 48%) nanogram x hour/mL, respectively, following avapritinib 300 mg PO once daily in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST; n = 110). The steady-state geometric mean Cmax and AUC(0-24h) values were 377 (CV, 62%) nanogram/mL (n = 18) and 6,600 (CV, 54%) nanogram x hour/mL (n = 16), respectively, following avapritinib 200 mg PO once daily in patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM). The steady-state geometric mean Cmax values were 70.2 (CV, 62.7%) nanogram/mL and 141 nanogram/mL (35.3%) and the AUC(0-24h) values were 1,330 (CV, 60.7%) nanogram x hour/mL and 2,670 (37.8%) nanogram x hour/mL, respectively, following avapritinib 25 mg PO once daily (n = 9) and 50 mg PO once daily (n = 9 to 10) in patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM). The Cmax and AUC values increased proportionally over an avapritinib dose range of 25 mg to 400 mg once daily. The mean time-to-peak concentration (Tmax) ranged from 2 to 4 hours following single doses of avapritinib. Steady-state concentrations of avapritinib were reached by day 15 after daily administration; the mean accumulation ratios at steady state were 3.82 (n = 34), 6.41 (n = 9), 4.06 (n = 9), and 3.9 (n = 9) in patients with GIST (300 mg/day), AdvSM (200 mg/day), ISM (25 mg/day), and ISM (50 mg/day), respectively. Based on data from 4 clinical trials, higher avapritinib exposure was associated with an increased risk of grade 3 or higher treatment-related adverse effects, any grade pooled cognitive adverse effects, grade 2 or higher pooled cognitive adverse effects, and grade 2 or higher pooled edema adverse effects over the dose range of 30 mg to 400 mg once daily in patients with advanced malignancies or systemic mastocytosis. Higher avapritinib exposure was associated with a faster time to response in patients with AdvSM.
When administered with a high-calorie, high-fat meal (approximately 909 calories with 58 g carbohydrate, 56 g fat, and 43 g protein), the avapritinib Cmax and AUC values were increased by 59% and 29%, respectively, compared to those in a fasted state. Coadministration with gastric acid reducing agents does not cause a clinically significant difference in the pharmacokinetics of avapritinib in patients with GIST or AdvSM.

Hepatic Impairment

Mild (total bilirubin level at the ULN or less and AST level more than ULN; OR total bilirubin level 1 to 1.5 times the ULN and any AST level) or moderate (total bilirubin level more than 1.5 to 3 times the ULN and any AST level) hepatic impairment do not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of avapritinib. Following a single oral avapritinib 100-mg dose, the mean unbound AUC(0-inf) value was 61% higher in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) compared with healthy subjects with normal hepatic function.

Renal Impairment

Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of avapritinib. The effect of severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/min) on the pharmacokinetics of avapritinib is unknown.

Geriatric

Age (18 to 90 years) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of avapritinib.

Gender Differences

Gender does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of avapritinib.

Ethnic Differences

Ethnicity (White, Black, Asian) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of avapritinib.

Obesity

Body weight (39.5 kg to 156.3 kg) does not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of avapritinib.

Administration

For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Emetic Risk
Moderate/High
Administer routine antiemetic prophylaxis prior to treatment.
Patient Counseling
Advise patients to avoid or limit exposure to direct sunlight, sunlamps, and other sources of ultraviolet radiation during treatment and for 1 week after stopping treatment. If it is necessary to be in the sun, patients should use sunscreen or wear clothes that cover the skin.


Oral Administration


Avapritinib must be given orally on an empty stomach, 1 hour before or 2 hours after the ingestion of food.
If a dose is missed, do not make it up if the next dose is due within 8 hours.
If vomiting occurs, do not administer an additional dose of avapritinib; continue regular administration with the next scheduled dose.


Maximum Dosage Limits
Adults

300 mg/day PO.

Geriatric

300 mg/day PO.

Adolescents

Safety and effectiveness have not been established.

Children

Safety and effectiveness have not been established.

Dosage Forms

AYVAKIT 100mg Tablet

AYVAKIT 200mg Tablet

AYVAKIT 25mg Tablet

AYVAKIT 300mg Tablet

AYVAKIT 50mg Tablet

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
Hepatic Impairment


Mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin level at the ULN or less and AST level more than the ULN; OR total bilirubin level of 1 to 1.5 times the ULN and any AST level): No dosage adjustment is necessary.
Moderate hepatic impairment (total bilirubin level more than 1.5 to 3 times the ULN and any AST level): No dosage adjustment necessary.
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C): Reduce the initial avapritinib dosage to 200 mg/day PO for gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), 100 mg/day PO for advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM), and 25 mg PO every other day for indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM). For patients with ISM who require a dose increase from the starting dose, increase to 25 mg PO once daily.


Renal Impairment


Mild to moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 89 mL/min): No dosage adjustment is necessary.
Severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease (CrCl less than 15 mL/min): The recommended dose of avapritinib has not been established.


© 2026 Elsevier