=== Norepinephrine (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 443)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Norepinephrine is an intravenous catecholamine indicated for restoration of blood pressure in patients with acute hypotensive states.

Routes: injection (IV/IM/SC); Common adult doses: 3.3 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion has been used in refractory shock.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): hypoxia, lactic acidosis, peripheral vasoconstriction, tissue necrosis

In an Overdose: Should extravasation occur, phentolamine 5—10 mg diluted in 10—15 ml of saline solution, should be infiltrated into the area (given as multiple subcutaneous injections) to antagonize vasoconstriction and reduce and/or prevent devastating...

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: Potent vasoconstrictors such as norepinephrine should not be used in patients with hypotension secondary to blood volume deficits (hypovolemia) except to maintain coronary and cerebral artery perfusion until blood volume replacement therapy can be completed. If norepinephrine is continually used to...

Brand Names
  - Levophed

Dosage Forms
  - Levophed 4mg/4mL Solution for Injection
  - Levophed 4mg/4mL Solution for Injection (HealthTrust)
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate 1.6mg/100mL, Dextrose 5% Solution for injection
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate 128mcg/1mL, Sodium Chloride 0.9% Solution for injection
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate 16mcg/1mL, Dextrose 5% Solution for injection
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate 16mcg/1mL, Sodium Chloride 0.9% Solution for injection
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate 1mg/1mL Solution for injection
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate 3.2mg/100mL, Dextrose 5% Solution for injection
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate 32mcg/1mL, Dextrose 5% Solution for injection
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate 32mcg/1mL, Sodium Chloride 0.9% Solution for injection
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate 64mcg/1mL, Dextrose 5% Solution for injection
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate 64mcg/1mL, Sodium Chloride 0.9% Solution for injection
  - Norepinephrine Bitartrate Bulk powder

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  General Dosing Information
When discontinuing norepinephrine, gradually reduce the infusion rate while expanding blood volume with intravenous fluids. Abrupt discontinuation of norepinephrine may result in marked hypotension.
  Indications
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.1 mcg/kg/minute (weight-based) or 8 to 12 mcg/minute (flat-dose) continuous IV infusion, initially. Titrate dose by 0.02 mcg/kg/minute (or more in emergency cases) every 2 to 5 minutes based on clinical response. Usual dose: 0.05 to 0.4 mcg/kg/minute (weight-based) or 2 to 4 mcg/minute (flat-dose). Infusion rates up to 3.3 mcg/kg/minute have been used.
        Heading
        Infants†, Children†, and Adolescents†
        Dosage Description
        0.1 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion, initially. Titrate dose as needed based on clinical response. Usual Max: 2 mcg/kg/minute.
        Heading
        Neonates†
        Dosage Description
        0.1 to 0.5 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion, initially. Titrate dose every 30 minutes based on clinical response. Usual Max: 2 mcg/kg/minute. The norepinephrine infusion rate required to correct hypotension ranged from 0.2 to 2 mcg/kg/minute (mean 0.5 mcg/kg/minute), and the individual maximum infusion rate to sustain normal systolic blood pressure ranged from 0.2 to 7.1 mcg/kg/minute in an observational study of 22 neonates (gestational age older than 35 weeks) with hypotension due to septic shock refractory to fluid resuscitation and dopamine or dobutamine.
    Heading
    For the treatment of acute hypotension, cardiogenic shock, sepsis, or septic shock
    Routes
      Heading
      Intravenous dosage
      Route Age Groups
        Heading
        Adults
        Dosage Description
        0.5 mg/hour continuous IV infusion, initially. Increase the dose by 0.5 mg/hour every 4 hours as needed to achieve an increase in mean arterial pressure of at least 10 mmHg or an increase in urine output of more than 200 mL/4 hours. Max: 3 mg/hour. Response is defined by serum creatinine decreases to less than 1.5 mg/dL or return to within 0.3 mg/dL of baseline over a maximum of 14 days. In persons whose serum creatinine remains at or above the pretreatment level over 4 days with the maximum tolerated doses of the vasoconstrictor, therapy may be discontinued. The treatment of choice for hepatorenal syndrome is a vasoconstrictor in combination with albumin; norepinephrine is an alternative to terlipressin as the preferred vasoconstrictor. Albumin is also given to maintain a central venous pressure of 4 to 10 mmHg.
    Heading
    For the treatment of hepatorenal syndrome†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  General Information
  Potent vasoconstrictors such as norepinephrine should not be used in patients with hypotension secondary to blood volume deficits (hypovolemia) except to maintain coronary and cerebral artery perfusion until blood volume replacement therapy can be completed. If norepinephrine is continually used to maintain blood pressure in the absence of blood volume replacement therapy, many sequelae may occur including severe peripheral and visceral vasoconstriction, decreased renal perfusion, tissue hypoxia, and lactate acidosis.
 
Norepinephrine should not be used in patients with peripheral or mesenteric thrombosis due to the risk of increasing ischemia and extending the area of infarction, unless administration is necessary for a life-saving procedure.
 
Norepinephrine is relatively contraindicated for use during halothane anesthesia or cyclopropane anesthesia because of the risk of producing ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation. These arrhythmias also can develop in patients with profound hypoxia or hypercarbia.
 
Norepinephrine should be used with caution in patients with preexisting hyperthyroidism or hypertension it could exacerbate their underlying condition.
 
Insufficient numbers of subjects or patients have been evaluated to determine whether the elderly respond differently to norepinephrine. Other reported clinical experience has not identified any differences in drug response between elderly and younger patients. Norepinephrine infusions should not be administered into the veins of the legs in elderly patients.
 
Caution should be observed to avoid extravasation of norepinephrine during intravenous administration. Peripheral ischemia, tissue necrosis, and/or gangrene in the surrounding area can occur following extravasation. If extravasation occurs, the affected area should be infiltrated as soon as possible, to prevent necrosis, using a normal saline solution containing phentolamine, injecting liberally throughout the ischemic area using a fine hypodermic needle (see Phentolamine Dosage). The ischemic area may be identified by a cool, hard, and pallid appearance. Sympathetic blockade with phentolamine causes immediate and noticeable local hyperemic changes if the area is infiltrated within 12 hours of extravasation. The phentolamine antidote should be given as soon as possible after the extravasation is observed.
 
Norepinephrine is classified as FDA pregnancy risk category C. Safe use during pregnancy has not been established.
 
It is not known whether norepinephrine is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when administering norepinephrine to a breast-feeding woman.
 
In general, sympathomimetics should not be administered to patients treated with MAOI therapy (see Drug Interactions).
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    asthma
    General Information
    Some formulations of norepinephrine may contain sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite, which may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible individuals. Sulfite sensitivity is more common in individuals with asthma than those without asthma.
    Headline
    cardiac arrhythmias, hypercapnia, hypoxia
    General Information
    Perform continuous cardiac monitoring of individuals with cardiac arrhythmias. Norepinephrine increases intracellular calcium concentrations and may cause arrhythmias, particularly in the setting of hypoxia or hypercapnia.
    Headline
    hypovolemia
    General Information
    Correct hypovolemia before starting norepinephrine. Administration of norepinephrine to individuals who are hypotensive from hypovolemia can result in severe peripheral and visceral vasoconstriction, decreased renal perfusion and reduced urine output, tissue hypoxia, lactic acidosis, and reduced systemic blood flow despite normal blood pressure.
    Headline
    occlusive vascular disease
    General Information
    Avoid norepinephrine in individuals with mesenteric or peripheral vascular thrombosis, as this may increase ischemia and extend the area of infarction. Gangrene of the extremities has occurred in individuals with thrombotic or occlusive vascular disease or with prolonged or high dose norepinephrine infusions. Monitor for changes to the skin of the extremities in susceptible individuals. Avoid infusions of norepinephrine into the veins of the leg in individuals with occlusive vascular disease of the legs.
    Headline
    geriatric
    General Information
    Use cautious dose selection for norepinephrine in geriatric adults, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency or decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Additionally, avoid infusions of norepinephrine into the veins of the leg in geriatric adults.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Limited human data suggest that norepinephrine use during pregnancy at the time of delivery does not increase the risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. Hypotension from septic shock, myocardial infarction, or stroke poses significant risks to both the pregnant person and fetus and requires prompt, life-saving treatment. Delaying therapy due to concerns about norepinephrine's effects is not advised, as stabilization is critical. In animal reproduction studies, high doses (approximately 10 times the average maintenance dose of 2 to 4 mcg/minute, on a mg/kg basis) of intravenous norepinephrine resulted in lowered placental blood flow. Clinical relevance to changes in the human fetus is unknown. Increased fetal reabsorptions were observed in pregnant hamsters after receiving daily norepinephrine injections at approximately 2 times the maximum recommended dose on a mg/m2 basis for 4 days during organogenesis.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Norepinephrine is compatible with breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of norepinephrine in human or animal milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects on milk production. Clinically relevant exposure to the breast-fed child is not expected based on the short half-life and poor oral bioavailability of norepinephrine.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Limited human data suggest that norepinephrine use during pregnancy at the time of delivery does not increase the risk of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse outcomes. Hypotension from septic shock, myocardial infarction, or stroke poses significant risks to both the pregnant person and fetus and requires prompt, life-saving treatment. Delaying therapy due to concerns about norepinephrine's effects is not advised, as stabilization is critical. In animal reproduction studies, high doses (approximately 10 times the average maintenance dose of 2 to 4 mcg/minute, on a mg/kg basis) of intravenous norepinephrine resulted in lowered placental blood flow. Clinical relevance to changes in the human fetus is unknown. Increased fetal reabsorptions were observed in pregnant hamsters after receiving daily norepinephrine injections at approximately 2 times the maximum recommended dose on a mg/m2 basis for 4 days during organogenesis.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Norepinephrine is compatible with breast-feeding. There are no data on the presence of norepinephrine in human or animal milk, the effects on the breast-fed child, or the effects on milk production. Clinically relevant exposure to the breast-fed child is not expected based on the short half-life and poor oral bioavailability of norepinephrine.

Interactions
Acarbose: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Acebutolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Acetaminophen; Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Dihydrocodeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Pyrilamine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Acetaminophen; Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Acetaminophen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Aclidinium; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Albuterol: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Aliskiren; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Alogliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alogliptin; Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Alpha-blockers: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly. Also, because norepinephrine is an alpha-adrenergic agonist, drugs with alpha-blocking activity such as alpha-blockers directly counteract the vasopressor effects of norepinephrine.
Alpha-glucosidase Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ambrisentan: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy if taking ambrisentan with a sympathomimetic.
aMILoride; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension.
amLODIPine; Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Amoxapine: (Major) Concomitant use of amoxapine with sympathomimetics should be avoided whenever possible; use with caution when concurrent use cannot be avoided. One drug information reference suggests that cyclic antidepressants potentiate the pharmacologic effects of direct-acting sympathomimetics, such as norepinephrine, however, the data are not consistent.
Arformoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when arformoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Aspirin, ASA; Caffeine; Orphenadrine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Atenolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Atenolol; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Atomoxetine: (Moderate) Due to the potential for additive increases in blood pressure and heart rate, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with vasopressors such as norepinephrine. Consider monitoring blood pressure and heart rate at baseline and regularly if vasopressors are coadministered with atomoxetine.
Atropine: (Major) Pharmacologically, sufficient doses of atropine block various types of vagal reflex bradycardia. Because norepinephrine causes vagal reflex bradycardia, the concomitant use of atropine and norepinephrine may increase the pressor effect of norepinephrine.
Atropine; Difenoxin: (Major) Pharmacologically, sufficient doses of atropine block various types of vagal reflex bradycardia. Because norepinephrine causes vagal reflex bradycardia, the concomitant use of atropine and norepinephrine may increase the pressor effect of norepinephrine.
Azilsartan; Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Benazepril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Beta-blockers: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Betaxolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bethanechol: (Moderate) Bethanechol offsets the effects of sympathomimetics at sites where sympathomimetic and cholinergic receptors have opposite effects.
Bexagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Bisoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bisoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Bretylium: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate closely when sympathomimetics are administered with bretylium. The pressor and arrhythmogenic effects of catecholamines are enhanced by bretylium.
Brimonidine; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Bromocriptine: (Moderate) Limit the concomitant use of bromocriptine and a sympathomimetic to 10 days or less. Both medications may increase the risk for blood pressure elevations and tachycardia.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Brompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Budesonide; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Budesonide; Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Bumetanide: (Moderate) Diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Caffeine: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Caffeine; Sodium Benzoate: (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Canagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Canagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Candesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Captopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Carbidopa; Levodopa; Entacapone: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as norepinephrine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Cardiac glycosides: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients receiving cardiac glycosides and vasopressors concurrently due to the increased risk of arrhythmia.
Carteolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Carvedilol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Cetirizine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Chlophedianol; Dexchlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
chlordiazePOXIDE; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension.
Chlorothiazide: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Chlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Chlorpheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
chlorproMAZINE: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Chlorthalidone: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
clomiPRAMINE: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension.
cloNIDine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of clonidine when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored for loss of blood pressure control.
Cocaine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of additional vasoconstrictor agents with cocaine. If unavoidable, prolonged vital sign and ECG monitoring may be required. Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported after concomitant administration of topical intranasal cocaine and vasoconstrictor agents during nasal and sinus surgery. The risk for nervousness, irritability, convulsions, and other cardiac arrhythmias may increase during coadministration.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
COMT inhibitors: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as norepinephrine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Dapagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Dapagliflozin; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Desflurane: (Moderate) Monitor cardiac rhythm in patients receiving norepinephrine with halogenated anesthetics. Concomitant use of may lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.
Desipramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension.
Desloratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dexbrompheniramine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dexchlorpheniramine; Dextromethorphan; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Dextromethorphan; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Diazoxide: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Diethylpropion: (Major) Diethylpropion has vasopressor effects. Coadministration with other vasopressors may have the potential for serious cardiac adverse effects such as hypertensive crisis and cardiac arrhythmias.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Carefully monitor patients receiving cardiac glycosides and vasopressors concurrently due to the increased risk of arrhythmia.
Dihydroergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Diphenoxylate; Atropine: (Major) Pharmacologically, sufficient doses of atropine block various types of vagal reflex bradycardia. Because norepinephrine causes vagal reflex bradycardia, the concomitant use of atropine and norepinephrine may increase the pressor effect of norepinephrine.
DOPamine: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure during concomitant use of dopamine and other vasopressors, such as norepinephrine, due to the risk for severe hypertension.
Dorzolamide; Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Doxazosin: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly. Also, because norepinephrine is an alpha-adrenergic agonist, drugs with alpha-blocking activity such as alpha-blockers directly counteract the vasopressor effects of norepinephrine.
Doxepin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension.
droNABinol: (Moderate) Concurrent use of dronabinol, THC with sympathomimetics may result in additive hypertension, tachycardia, and possibly cardiotoxicity. Dronabinol, THC has been associated with occasional hypotension, hypertension, syncope, and tachycardia. In a study of 7 adult males, combinations of IV cocaine and smoked marijuana, 1 g marijuana cigarette, 0 to 2.7% delta-9-THC, increased the heart rate above levels seen with either agent alone, with increases plateauing at 50 bpm.
Dulaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Empagliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Enalapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Entacapone: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as norepinephrine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Epoprostenol: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including epoprostenol. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Ergotamine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Ergotamine; Caffeine: (Contraindicated) Concomitant use of ergotamine with vasopressors is contraindicated as due to the risk for a synergistic increase in blood pressure. Coadministration may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia. (Moderate) Caffeine is a CNS-stimulant and such actions are expected to be additive when coadministered with other CNS stimulants or psychostimulants.
Ertugliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Ertugliflozin; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Esmolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Ethacrynic Acid: (Moderate) Diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Ethiodized Oil: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Exenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Fenoldopam: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Fexofenadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Fluticasone; Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should also be used when salmeterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Fluticasone; Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Fluticasone; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Formoterol; Mometasone: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Fosinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Furosemide: (Moderate) Diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Ginger, Zingiber officinale: (Minor) In vitro studies have demonstrated the positive inotropic effect ginger, Zingiber officinale. It is theoretically possible that excessive doses of ginger could affect the action of vasopressors like norepinephrine; however, no clinical data are available.
Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glipiZIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
glyBURIDE; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Glycopyrrolate; Formoterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should be used when formoterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Moderate) Monitor cardiac rhythm in patients receiving norepinephrine with halogenated anesthetics. Concomitant use of may lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.
hydrALAZINE: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydrALAZINE; Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present. (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ; Moexipril: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Ibuprofen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Iloprost: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with iloprost. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including iloprost. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Imipramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension.
Incretin Mimetics: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Insulin Aspart: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Aspart; Insulin Aspart Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Degludec; Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Detemir: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glargine; Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Glulisine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Icodec: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin Lispro; Insulin Lispro Protamine: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulin, Inhaled: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Insulins: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Iobenguane I 131: (Major) Discontinue sympathomimetics for at least 5 half-lives before the administration of the dosimetry dose or a therapeutic dose of iobenguane I-131. Do not restart sympathomimetics until at least 7 days after each iobenguane I-131 dose. Drugs that reduce catecholamine uptake or deplete catecholamine stores, such as sympathomimetics, may interfere with iobenguane I-131 uptake into cells and interfere with dosimetry calculations resulting in altered iobenguane I-131 efficacy.
Iodixanol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Iohexol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Iomeprol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) The intravascular injection of a contrast medium should never be made after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects. Serious neurologic sequelae, including permanent paralysis, have been reported after cerebral arteriography, selective spinal arteriography, and arteriography of vessels supplying the spinal cord.
Iopamidol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Iopromide: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Ioversol: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Irbesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Isocarboxazid: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Isoflurane: (Moderate) Monitor cardiac rhythm in patients receiving norepinephrine with halogenated anesthetics. Concomitant use of may lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.
Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Isosorbide Dinitrate, ISDN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosorbide Mononitrate: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Isosulfan Blue: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Ketamine: (Moderate) Closely monitor vital signs when ketamine and norepinephrine are coadministered; consider dose adjustment individualized to the patient's clinical situation. Norepinephrine may enhance the sympathomimetic effects of ketamine.
Labetalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Landiolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levalbuterol: (Major) Caution and close observation should be used when albuterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
Levobunolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Levomilnacipran: (Major) Due to the effects of levomilnacipran on noradrenergic pathways, paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmias may occur during concurrent use of norepinephrine.
Levothyroxine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Levothyroxine; Liothyronine (Porcine): (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Linagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linagliptin; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Linezolid: (Major) Linezolid may enhance the hypertensive effect of norepinephrine. Initial doses of norepinephrine should be reduced and subsequent dosing titrated to desired response. Closely monitor blood pressure during coadministration. Linezolid is an antibiotic that is also a weak, reversible nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic agents, such as norepinephrine.
Liothyronine: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Liraglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Lisinopril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Lithium: (Moderate) Moderate to significant dietary sodium changes, or changes in sodium and fluid intake, may affect lithium excretion. Systemic sodium chloride administration may result in increased lithium excretion and therefore, decreased serum lithium concentrations. In addition, high fluid intake may increase lithium excretion. For patients receiving sodium-containing intravenous fluids, symptom control and lithium concentrations should be carefully monitored. It is recommended that patients taking lithium maintain consistent dietary sodium consumption and adequate fluid intake during the initial stabilization period and throughout lithium treatment. Supplemental oral sodium and fluid should be only be administered under careful medical supervision.
Lixisenatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Loop diuretics: (Moderate) Diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Loratadine; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Losartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Loxapine: (Major) Patients taking loxapine can have reduced pressor response to norepinephrine.
Macitentan: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Macitentan; Tadalafil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with macitentan. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including macitentan. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Mecamylamine: (Major) The cardiovascular effects of sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects produced by mecamylamine. Close monitoring of blood pressure or the selection of alternative therapeutic agents may be needed.
Meglitinides: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Metaproterenol: (Major) Caution and close observation should also be used when metaproterenol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
metFORMIN; sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
metFORMIN; SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Methohexital: (Major) Norepinephrine interacts with general anesthetics because the anesthetics increase cardiac irritability, which can lead to arrhythmias.
Methyldopa: (Major) Sympathomimetics, such as norepinephrine, can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of methyldopa when administered concomitantly. Blood pressure should be monitored closely to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Methylergonovine: (Moderate) Monitor for adverse effects if concomitant use of methylergonovine and vasoconstrictors, such as vasopressors, is necessary. Concomitant use may produce a synergistic increase in blood pressure and may also increase the risk for vasospasm which may lead to cerebral or peripheral ischemia.
Methylphenidate Derivatives: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Methylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
metOLazone: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Metoprolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Metoprolol; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Miglitol: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Milnacipran: (Moderate) Concomitant use of milnacipran with drugs that increase blood pressure and heart rate has not been systematically evaluated and such combinations should be used with caution. Due to the effects of milnacipran on noradrenergic pathways, paroxysmal hypertension and arrhythmias may occur during concurrent use of norepinephrine. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure, and the patients clinical response to therapy if co-use is necessary. Milnacipran is associated with a mean increase in heart rate of 7 to 8 beats per minute, and higher increases in heart rate (13 beats per minute or more) occur more commonly in patients treated with milnacipran than in those receiving placebo. The mean increase from baseline was 5 to 6 mmHg in systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and cases of hypertension with milnacipran have been reported, some requiring immediate treatment.
Minoxidil: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Nadolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Naproxen; Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Nateglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Nebivolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Nicotine: (Moderate) Nicotine use may potentiate the effects of the adrenergic agonists and the ergot alkaloids. If significant changes in nicotine intake occur, the dosages of these drugs may need adjustment.
Nitrates: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroglycerin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antianginal effects of nitrates, and can increase blood pressure and/or heart rate. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Nitroprusside: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Non-Ionic Contrast Media: (Major) Do not administer non-ionic contrast media intra-arterially after the administration of vasopressors since they strongly potentiate neurologic effects.
Nortriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension.
Olmesartan; amLODIPine; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Olmesartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Opicapone: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as norepinephrine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Orforglipron: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Oxytocin: (Moderate) The administration of prophylactic vasopressors with oxytocin can cause severe, persistent hypertension, as the 2 drugs may have a synergistic and additive vasoconstrictive effect. This interaction was noted when oxytocin was given 3 to 4 hours after prophylactic vasoconstrictor in conjunction with caudal anesthesia. The incidence of such an interaction may be decreased if vasopressors are not administered prior to oxytocin.
Perphenazine: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension. (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Phendimetrazine: (Major) Phendimetrazine is a phenylalkaline sympathomimetic agent. All sympathomimetics and psychostimulants, including other anorexiants, should be used cautiously or avoided in patients receiving phendimetrazine. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmia.
Phenelzine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Pharmacologically, sufficient doses of atropine block various types of vagal reflex bradycardia. Because norepinephrine causes vagal reflex bradycardia, the concomitant use of atropine and norepinephrine may increase the pressor effect of norepinephrine.
Phenothiazines: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Phenoxybenzamine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly. Also, because norepinephrine is an alpha-adrenergic agonist, drugs with alpha-blocking activity such as alpha-blockers directly counteract the vasopressor effects of norepinephrine.
Phentermine: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Phentermine; Topiramate: (Major) Because phentermine is a sympathomimetic and anorexic agent (i.e., psychostimulant) it should not be used in combination with other sympathomimetics. The combined use of these agents may have the potential for additive side effects, such as hypertensive crisis or cardiac arrhythmias.
Phentolamine: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly. Also, because norepinephrine is an alpha-adrenergic agonist, drugs with alpha-blocking activity such as alpha-blockers directly counteract the vasopressor effects of norepinephrine.
Pindolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Pioglitazone: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; Glimepiride: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes. (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pioglitazone; metFORMIN: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Pramlintide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Prazosin: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly. Also, because norepinephrine is an alpha-adrenergic agonist, drugs with alpha-blocking activity such as alpha-blockers directly counteract the vasopressor effects of norepinephrine.
Procarbazine: (Major) Because procarbazine exhibits some monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity, sympathomimetic drugs should be avoided. As with MAOIs, the use of a sympathomimetic drug with procarbazine may precipitate hypertensive crisis or other serious side effects. In the presence of MAOIs, drugs that cause release of norepinephrine induce severe cardiovascular and cerebrovascular responses. In general, do not use a sympathomimetic drug unless clinically necessary (e.g., medical emergencies, agents like dopamine) within the 14 days prior, during or 14 days after procarbazine therapy. If use is necessary within 2 weeks of the MAOI drug, in general the initial dose of the sympathomimetic agent must be greatly reduced. Patients should be counseled to avoid non-prescription (OTC) decongestants and other drug products, weight loss products, and energy supplements that contain sympathomimetic agents.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Promethazine: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Propofol: (Moderate) Norepinephrine interacts with general anesthetics because the anesthetics increase cardiac irritability, which can lead to arrhythmias.
Propranolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Protriptyline: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension.
Pseudoephedrine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Pseudoephedrine; Triprolidine: (Major) Pseudoephedrine can potentiate the effects and increase the toxicity of other sympathomimetics by adding to their sympathomimetic activity. Although no data are available, pseudoephedrine should be used cautiously in patients using significant quantities of other sympathomimetics.
Quinapril; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Racepinephrine: (Major) Racepinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug with agonist actions at both the alpha and beta receptors. Patients using racepinephrine inhalation are advised to avoid other non-prescription products containing sympathomimetics since additive adverse effects on the cardiovascular and nervous system are possible, some which may be undesirable. Side effects such as nausea, tremor, nervousness, difficulty with sleep, and increased heart rate or blood pressure may be additive. Patients should avoid use of non-prescription decongestants, such as phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine, while using racepinephrine inhalations. Patients should avoid dietary supplements containing ingredients that are reported or claimed to have a stimulant or weight-loss effect, such as ephedrine and ephedra, Ma huang, and phenylpropanolamine.
Rasagiline: (Moderate) The concomitant use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics was not allowed in clinical studies; therefore, caution is advised during concurrent use of rasagiline and sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD and weight loss, non-prescription nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants, and weight loss dietary supplements containing Ephedra. Although sympathomimetics are contraindicated for use with other non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), hypertensive reactions generally are not expected to occur during concurrent use with rasagiline because of the selective monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibition of rasagiline at manufacturer recommended doses. One case of elevated blood pressure has been reported in a patient during concurrent use of the recommended dose of rasagiline and ophthalmic tetrahydrozoline. One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended dose of another MAO-B inhibitor, selegiline, in combination with ephedrine. It should be noted that the MAO-B selectivity of rasagiline decreases in a dose-related manner as increases are made above the recommended daily dose and interactions with sympathomimetics may be more likely to occur at these higher doses.
Regular Insulin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Regular Insulin; Isophane Insulin (NPH): (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking insulin. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Repaglinide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents and adrenergic agonists tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, and other sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking antidiabetic agents. Epinephrine and other sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Riociguat: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with riociguat. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including riociguat. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Safinamide: (Moderate) Severe hypertensive reactions, including hypertensive crisis, have been reported in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), such as safinamide, and sympathomimetic medications, such as norepinephrine. If concomitant use of safinamide and norepinephrine is necessary, monitor for hypertension and hypertensive crisis.
Salmeterol: (Moderate) Caution and close observation should also be used when salmeterol is used concurrently with other adrenergic sympathomimetics, administered by any route, to avoid potential for increased cardiovascular effects.
sAXagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Selegiline: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure for hypertension during concomitant use of selegiline and sympathomimetics such as norepinephrine. The use of these drugs together may produce substantial elevations in blood pressure. If a hypertensive crisis occurs, selegiline should be discontinued and therapy to lower blood pressure should be instituted immediately.
Selexipag: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with selexipag. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including selexipag. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Semaglutide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Serdexmethylphenidate; Dexmethylphenidate: (Moderate) Methylphenidate derivatives can potentiate the actions of both exogenous (such as dopamine and epinephrine) and endogenous (such as norepinephrine) vasopressors. It is advisable to monitor cardiac function if these medications are coadministered. Vasopressors include medications such as epinephrine, dopamine, midodrine, and non-prescription medications such as pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine.
Sevoflurane: (Moderate) Monitor cardiac rhythm in patients receiving norepinephrine with halogenated anesthetics. Concomitant use of may lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.
SGLT2 Inhibitors: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
SITagliptin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Solriamfetol: (Moderate) Monitor blood pressure and heart rate during coadministration of solriamfetol, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and vasopressors. Concurrent use of solriamfetol and other medications that increase blood pressure and/or heart rate may increase the risk of such effects. Coadministration of solriamfetol with other drugs that increase blood pressure or heart rate has not been evaluated.
Sotagliflozin: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Sotalol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Spironolactone: (Moderate) Spironolactone may reduce the vascular responsiveness to norepinephrine. Caution should be exercised with coadministration of spironolactone and norepinephrine.
Spironolactone; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Spironolactone may reduce the vascular responsiveness to norepinephrine. Caution should be exercised with coadministration of spironolactone and norepinephrine. (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) St. John's wort, Hypericum Perforatum may reduce the neuronal uptake of monoamines and should be used cautiously with sympathomimetics or drugs with sympathomimetic-like actions.
Sulfonylureas: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking sulfonylureas. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Telmisartan; amLODIPine; Indapamide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved.
Telmisartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Terazosin: (Major) Sympathomimetics can antagonize the effects of antihypertensives such as alpha-blockers when administered concomitantly. Also, because norepinephrine is an alpha-adrenergic agonist, drugs with alpha-blocking activity such as alpha-blockers directly counteract the vasopressor effects of norepinephrine.
Terbutaline: (Major) Concomitant use of sympathomimetics with beta-agonists might result in additive cardiovascular effects such as increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Theophylline, Aminophylline: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with some sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation and effects such as nervousness, irritability, or insomnia. Seizures or cardiac arrhythmias are also possible. (Moderate) Concurrent administration of theophylline or aminophylline with sympathomimetics can produce excessive stimulation manifested by skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity.
Thiazide diuretics: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Thiazolidinediones: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking thiazolidinediones. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Thioridazine: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Thiothixene: (Major) The alpha-adrenergic effects of adrenergic agonists like norepinephrine, can be blocked during concurrent administration of thiothixene. This blockade can cause an apparently paradoxical condition called 'epinephrine reversal,' which can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction.
Thyroid hormones: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and thyroid hormone use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone.
Timolol: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamic parameters and for loss of efficacy during concomitant sympathomimetic agent and beta-blocker use; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Concomitant use may antagonize the cardiovascular effects of either drug.
Tirzepatide: (Moderate) Sympathomimetic agents tend to increase blood glucose concentrations when administered systemically. Monitor for loss of glycemic control when sympathomimetics are administered to patients taking incretin mimetics. Sympathomimetics, through stimulation of alpha- and beta- receptors, increase hepatic glucose production and glycogenolysis and inhibit insulin secretion. Also, adrenergic medications may decrease glucose uptake by muscle cells. For treatment of cold symptoms, nasal decongestants may be preferable for short term, limited use (1 to 3 days) as an alternative to systemic decongestants in patients taking medications for diabetes.
Tolcapone: (Moderate) Drugs known to be metabolized by catechol-O-methyltransferase, such as norepinephrine, should be administered cautiously to patients receiving COMT inhibitors. Concomitant use may result in increased heart rates, possibly arrhythmias, and excessive changes in blood pressure.
Tolvaptan: (Moderate) Coadministration of tolvaptan and hypertonic saline (e.g., 3% NaCl injection solution) is not recommended. The use of hypertonic sodium chloride in combination with tolvaptan may result in a too rapid correction of hyponatremia and increase the risk of osmotic demyelination (i.e., central pontine myelinolysis).
Torsemide: (Moderate) Diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Tranylcypromine: (Contraindicated) In general, sympathomimetics should be avoided in patients receiving MAOIs due to an increased risk of hypertensive crisis. This applies to sympathomimetics including stimulants for ADHD, narcolepsy or weight loss, nasal, oral, and ophthalmic decongestants and cold products, and respiratory sympathomimetics (e.g., beta agonist drugs). Some local anesthetics also contain a sympathomimetic (e.g., epinephrine). In general, medicines containing sympathomimetic agents should not be used concurrently with MAOIs or within 14 days before or after their use.
Treprostinil: (Major) Avoid use of sympathomimetic agents with treprostinil. Sympathomimetics counteract the medications used to stabilize pulmonary hypertension, including treprostinil. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure, increase heart rate, and may cause vasoconstriction resulting in chest pain and shortness of breath in these patients. Patients should be advised to avoid amphetamine drugs, decongestants (including nasal decongestants) and sympathomimetic anorexiants for weight loss, including dietary supplements. Intravenous vasopressors may be used in the emergency management of pulmonary hypertension patients when needed, but hemodynamic monitoring and careful monitoring of cardiac status are needed to avoid ischemia and other complications.
Triamterene; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Tricyclic antidepressants: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) The alpha-adrenergic effects of norepinephrine can be blocked during concurrent administration of phenothiazines. This blockade can lead to severe hypotension, tachycardia, and, potentially, myocardial infarction. Patients taking phenothiazines can possibly have reduced pressor response to ephedrine, phenylephrine, or norepinephrine, but these drugs are preferred over epinephrine if a vasopressor agent is required. According to the manufacturers of the various phenothiazines, norepinephrine or phenylephrine may be used if a vasopressor is needed.
Trimipramine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of norepinephrine with tricyclic antidepressants as concurrent use can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension.
Umeclidinium; Vilanterol: (Moderate) Administer sympathomimetics with caution with beta-agonists such as vilanterol. The cardiovascular effects of beta-2 agonists may be potentiated by concomitant use. Monitor the patient for tremors, nervousness, increased heart rate, or other additive side effects.
Valsartan; hydroCHLOROthiazide, HCTZ: (Moderate) Thiazide diuretics can cause decreased arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but the effect is not sufficient to preclude their coadministration.
Vasodilators: (Moderate) Use sympathomimetic agents with caution in patients receiving therapy for hypertension. Patients should be monitored to confirm that the desired antihypertensive effect is achieved. Sympathomimetics can increase blood pressure and heart rate, and antagonize the antihypertensive effects of vasodilators when administered concomitantly. Anginal pain may be induced when coronary insufficiency is present.
Vasopressin, ADH: (Moderate) Monitor hemodynamics and adjust drug doses as needed when vasopressin and norepinephrine are used concomitantly. Use together is expected to result in an additive effect on mean arterial blood pressure and other hemodynamic parameters.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  General Information
  Generalized CNS stimulation can result in adverse effects manifested as fear, anxiety, nervousness, insomnia, excitability, psychomotor agitation, impaired memory, headache, dizziness and disorientation. These reactions can occur with therapeutic doses of systemic norepinephrine. In patients with underlying psychiatric disturbances, norepinephrine can induce more pronounced CNS effects of their pathologic state including panic, hallucinations, aggressive behavior, and expression of suicidal or homicidal tendencies.Adrenergically modulated vasoactive and smooth muscle responses to norepinephrine can result in nausea/vomiting, diaphoresis, pallor, respiratory weakness, or apnea.Cardiac arrhythmias, including premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), sinus tachycardia, palpitations, and severe ventricular arrhythmias, are well-described potential adverse effects of norepinephrine due to beta stimulation of the myocardium and conduction system. ECG changes, including ST-T wave changes can occur with or without cardiovascular symptomatology. Angina, dyspnea, pulmonary edema, and ischemia result from the increased workload and subsequent oxygen demands of the adrenergically stimulated heart.Extravasation of norepinephrine, especially with repeated injections or high infusion rates, can result in severe tissue damage and necrosis. Should extravasation occur, phentolamine 5—10 mg diluted in 10—15 ml of saline solution, should be infiltrated into the area (given as multiple subcutaneous injections) to antagonize vasoconstriction and reduce and/or prevent devastating sloughing and tissue necrosis.Metabolic acidosis secondary to accumulation of lactic acid has been associated with long-term administration or overdose of norepinephrine.Hypersensitivity reactions can occur to sulfites contained in norepinephrine injection.
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    anxiety, headache
    General Information
    Nervous system adverse effects that can occur with norepinephrine use include anxiety and headache.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anxiety
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    bradycardia, hypertension
    General Information
    Hypertension and bradycardia are the most common adverse reactions associated with norepinephrine. Norepinephrine increases intracellular calcium concentrations and may cause arrhythmias, particularly in the setting of hypoxemia or hypercarbia.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      bradycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    hypoxia, lactic acidosis, peripheral vasoconstriction, tissue necrosis
    General Information
    Administration of norepinephrine to patients who are hypotensive from hypovolemia can result in severe visceral and peripheral vasoconstriction, decreased renal perfusion and reduced urine output, tissue hypoxia, lactic acidosis, and reduced systemic blood flow despite normal blood pressure. Gangrene of the extremities has occurred in patients with occlusive or thrombotic vascular disease or who received prolonged or high dose infusions of norepinephrine. Extravasation of norepinephrine may cause tissue necrosis and sloughing of surrounding tissue. To reduce the risk of extravasation, infuse into a large vein, check the infusion site frequently for free flow, and monitor for signs of extravasation. To prevent sloughing and necrosis in areas in which extravasation has occurred, infiltrate the ischemic area as soon as possible, using a syringe with a fine hypodermic needle with phentolamine 5 to 10 mg in 10 to 15 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection in adults. Sympathetic blockade with phentolamine causes immediate and conspicuous local hyperemic changes if the area is infiltrated within 12 hours.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoxia
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      tissue necrosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      lactic acidosis
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral vasoconstriction
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    pulmonary edema
    General Information
    Respiratory adverse effects that can occur with norepinephrine use include respiratory difficulty and pulmonary edema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pulmonary edema
      Severity
      Severe

Description
  Text
  Norepinephrine is an intravenous catecholamine indicated for restoration of blood pressure in patients with acute hypotensive states. It is an endogenous catecholamine synthesized in the adrenal medulla that is the biochemical precursor of epinephrine. Norepinephrine is the transmitter of most sympathetic postganglionic fibers of the central nervous system. Norepinephrine is a potent alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist with modest beta-agonist activity. Administration of norepinephrine to patients who are hypotensive from hypovolemia can result in severe visceral and peripheral vasoconstriction, decreased renal perfusion and reduced urine output, tissue hypoxia, lactic acidosis, and reduced systemic blood flow despite normal blood pressure; therefore, hypovolemia must be corrected before starting norepinephrine. Gangrene of the extremities has occurred in patients with occlusive or thrombotic vascular disease or who received prolonged or high dose infusions of norepinephrine. Guidelines recommend norepinephrine as the first-line vasopressor for patients with septic shock.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Norepinephrine acts predominantly on alpha-adrenergic receptors to produce constriction of resistance and capacitance vessels, thereby increasing systemic blood pressure and coronary artery blood flow. Norepinephrine also acts on beta1-receptors, although quantitatively less than either epinephrine or isoproterenol. In relatively lower doses, the cardiac-stimulant effect of norepinephrine is predominant; with larger doses, the vasoconstrictor effect predominates.
Similar to epinephrine, norepinephrine has direct agonist effects on effector cells that contain alpha- and beta-receptors. As with other catecholamines, the intracellular action of norepinephrine is mediated via cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), the production of which is augmented by beta stimulation and attenuated by alpha stimulation.
The primary pharmacodynamic effects of norepinephrine are cardiac stimulation, particularly at lower doses, and vasoconstriction, which tends to predominate with moderate to higher doses of the drug. Metabolic effects observed with epinephrine, such as glycogenolysis, inhibition of insulin release, and lipolysis, also occur with norepinephrine but are much less pronounced.
The hemodynamic consequences of norepinephrine's cardiovascular stimulation include increases in systolic, diastolic, and pulse pressures. Peripheral vascular resistance is also elevated. The elevation in resistance and pressure result in reflex vagal activity, which slows the heart rate and increases stroke volume. The elevation in vascular tone or resistance reduces blood flow to the major abdominal organs as well as to skeletal muscle. As with epinephrine, however, coronary blood flow is substantially increased secondary to the indirect effects of alpha stimulation. Therefore, norepinephrine does not significantly increase myocardial oxygen consumption.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Intravenous Route
    Description
    After initiation of an intravenous norepinephrine infusion, onset of activity is rapid (less than 30 seconds); steady-state plasma concentration is achieved in 5 minutes, and duration persists less than 10 minutes after discontinuation of the infusion.
  Text
  Norepinephrine is administered intravenously. Plasma protein binding of norepinephrine is approximately 25%. It is mainly bound to plasma albumin and to a smaller extent to prealbumin and alpha 1-acid glycoprotein. The Vd is 8.8 L. Norepinephrine localizes mainly in sympathetic nervous tissue. It does not cross the blood-brain barrier. Norepinephrine is metabolized in the liver and other tissues by a combination of reactions involving the enzymes catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) and monoamine oxidase (MAO). The major metabolites are normetanephrine and 3-methoxyl-4-hydroxy mandelic acid (vanillylmandelic acid, VMA), both of which are inactive. Other inactive metabolites include 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol, 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol. Noradrenaline metabolites are excreted in urine primarily as sulphate conjugates and, to a lesser extent, as glucuronide conjugates. Only small quantities of norepinephrine are excreted unchanged. In adults, the average metabolic clearance is 3.1 L/minute, and the mean half-life of norepinephrine is approximately 2.4 minutes.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: none

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Intravenous Administration
      Description
      Address hypovolemia before initiation of norepinephrine therapy.
Administer whole blood or plasma, if indicated to increase blood volume, separately.
Norepinephrine is inactivated in alkaline solutions; do not mix with bicarbonate.
 
Dilution
Dilute norepinephrine 4 mg in 1,000 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection for a concentration of 4 mcg/mL.
Dextrose-containing fluids offer protection against loss of potency due to oxidation; therefore, 5% Dextrose Injection or 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection are generally the preferred diluents. Although FDA-approved labeling states that dilution of norepinephrine in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection alone is not recommended, data support the stability of norepinephrine in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection at concentrations up to 16 mcg/mL.
ASHP Recommended Standard Concentrations for Adult Continuous Infusions: 16 mcg/mL, 32 mcg/mL, or 128 mcg/mL (for severe fluid restriction in those with high dosing requirements).
ASHP Recommended Standard Concentrations for Pediatric Continuous Infusions: 16 mcg/mL, 32 mcg/mL, or 64 mcg/mL.
Storage: Stable for up to 7 days at room temperature in 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection at concentrations of 4 mcg/mL or 16 mcg/mL.
 
Continuous IV Infusion
May administer initially via peripheral IV and change to central line administration as soon as possible. Infuse into a large vein. Avoid infusions into the veins of the leg in the elderly or patients with occlusive vascular disease of the legs.
Avoid using a catheter-tie-in technique.
Monitor blood pressure every 2 minutes until the desired hemodynamic effect is achieved, then monitor blood pressure every 5 minutes for the duration of the infusion.
Check the infusion site frequently for free flow, and monitor for signs of extravasation.
When discontinuing the infusion, reduce the flow rate gradually. Avoid abrupt withdrawal.
 
Extravasation Management
To prevent sloughing and necrosis in areas in which extravasation has occurred, infiltrate the ischemic area as soon as possible, using a syringe with a fine hypodermic needle with phentolamine 5 to 10 mg in 10 to 15 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection in adults.
Sympathetic blockade with phentolamine causes immediate and conspicuous local hyperemic changes if the area is infiltrated within 12 hours.
    Name
    Injectable Administration
    Description
    Visually inspect parenteral products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.
Do not use the solution if its color is pinkish or darker than slightly yellow or if it contains a precipitate.

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    3.3 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion has been used in refractory shock.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    3.3 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion has been used in refractory shock.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established. Although dosage is titrated to effect, 2 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion is often used as an upper limit.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established. Although dosage is titrated to effect, 2 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion is often used as an upper limit.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established. Although dosage is titrated to effect, 2 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion is often used as an upper limit.
    Name
    Neonates
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established. Although dosage is titrated to effect, 2 mcg/kg/minute continuous IV infusion is often used as an upper limit.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments are not available; however, the rate of metabolism of norepinephrine may be decreased in individual patients with hepatic impairment. Titrate the norepinephrine infusion rate to attain clinical goals.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed. Titrate the norepinephrine dosage to attain clinical goals.
 
Intermittent hemodialysis:
It is unknown whether norepinephrine is dialyzable. Titrate the norepinephrine infusion rate to attain clinical goals.
