=== Imlunestrant (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5628)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: Imlunestrant is an oral estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist indicated for the treatment of adults with ER-positive, HER2-negative, ESR1-mutated advanced or metastatic breast cancer with disease progression following at least one line of endocrine therapy.

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: 400 mg PO once daily.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components. Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure Reduce the dose of imlunestrant for patients with moderate or severe (Child-Pugh class B or Child-Pugh class C) hepatic... Hazardous drug: Approved by FDA after NIOSH 2024 list was published and...

Brand Names
  - Inluriyo

Dosage Forms
  - Inluriyo 200mg Tablet
  - Inluriyo 200mg Tablet (Sample)

Indication Specific Dosing
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of ER-positive, HER2-negative, estrogen receptor-1 (ESR1)-mutated advanced or metastatic breast cancer with disease progression following at least 1 line of endocrine therapy
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          400 mg orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Pre- or perimenopausal women and men should receive a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist according to current clinical practice standards. Coadministration of certain drugs may need to be avoided or dosage adjustments may be necessary; review drug interactions. In a multicenter, randomized, open-label clinical trial (EMBER-3), treatment with imlunestrant significantly improved the median investigator-assessed progression-free survival (PFS) (5.5 months vs. 3.8 months) in the ESR1-mutated population compared with investigator's choice of endocrine therapy (fulvestrant or exemestane) in patients with ER-positive, HER2-locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who had been previously treated with an aromatase inhibitor either alone or in combination with a CDK4/6 inhibitor; overall survival data was immature at the time of the PFS analysis. The objective response rate was 14.3% in the imlunestrant arm compared with 7.7% in the endocrine therapy arm (complete response, 0.9% vs. 0%). Patients were excluded from the EMBER-3 trial if they were eligible to receive a PARP inhibitor.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of breast cancer

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    Child-Pugh class B, Child-Pugh class C, hepatic failure
    General Information
    Reduce the dose of imlunestrant for patients with moderate or severe (Child-Pugh class B or Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment at baseline and monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of adverse reactions; the effect of hepatic failure on imlunestrant exposure is unknown. Monitor AST and ALT during treatment as clinically indicated; an interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if hepatotoxicity occurs.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of imlunestrant during pregnancy. Imlunestrant can cause fetal harm, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. In an embryo-fetal development study, oral administration of imlunestrant to pregnant rats during organogenesis led to embryo-fetal mortality (increased resorption, reduced number of live fetuses) and structural abnormalities (e.g., small jaw, protruding tongue, malrotated and hyperextended hindlimb, and edema localized subcutis) at maternal exposures that were at or below the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC. Apprise individuals receiving imlunestrant of the potential hazard to the fetus.
    Headline
    people who can cause pregnancy in others, people who may become pregnant, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others about the reproductive risk associated with imlunestrant. Imlunestrant may cause fetal harm. Verify pregnancy status prior to treatment initiation. Advise people who may become pregnant to use effective contraception while taking imlunestrant and for 1 week after the last dose. For those that can cause pregnancy in others, contraception should be used during imlunestrant treatment and for 1 week after the last dose. Based on findings in animals, imlunestrant may reversibly impair fertility both in people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during imlunestrant treatment and for 1 week after the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of imlunestrant or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Avoid the use of imlunestrant during pregnancy. Imlunestrant can cause fetal harm, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. There are no adequately controlled studies during human pregnancy. In an embryo-fetal development study, oral administration of imlunestrant to pregnant rats during organogenesis led to embryo-fetal mortality (increased resorption, reduced number of live fetuses) and structural abnormalities (e.g., small jaw, protruding tongue, malrotated and hyperextended hindlimb, and edema localized subcutis) at maternal exposures that were at or below the human exposure at the recommended dose based on AUC. Apprise individuals receiving imlunestrant of the potential hazard to the fetus.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    Advise individuals to avoid breast-feeding during imlunestrant treatment and for 1 week after the final dose due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child. There are no data on the presence of imlunestrant or its metabolites in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production.

Interactions
Abacavir; Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and adagrasib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Afatinib: (Moderate) If the concomitant use of imlunestrant and afatinib is necessary, monitor for afatinib-related adverse reactions. If the original dose of afatinib is not tolerated, consider reducing the daily dose of afatinib by 10 mg; resume the previous dose of afatinib as tolerated after discontinuation of imlunestrant. The manufacturer of afatinib recommends permanent discontinuation of therapy for severe or intolerant adverse drug reactions at a dose of 20 mg per day, but does not address a minimum dose otherwise. Afatinib is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Administration with another P-gp inhibitor, given 1 hour before a single dose of afatinib, increased afatinib exposure by 48%; there was no change in afatinib exposure when the P-gp inhibitor was administered at the same time as afatinib or 6 hours later. In healthy subjects, the relative bioavailability for AUC of afatinib was 119% when coadministered with the same P-gp inhibitor, and 111% when the inhibitor was administered 6 hours after afatinib.
Alpelisib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of alpelisib with imlunestrant due to increased exposure to alpelisib and the risk of alpelisib-related toxicity. If concomitant use is unavoidable, closely monitor for alpelisib-related adverse reactions. Alpelisib is a BCRP substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP inhibitor.
amLODIPine; Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and apalutamide. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and atazanavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and atazanavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Atorvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in atorvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase atorvastatin exposure. Atorvastatin is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Bictegravir; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and carbamazepine. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and carbamazepine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ceritinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is aCYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and chloramphenicol. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Cobimetinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in cobimetinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase cobimetinib exposure. In vitro, cobimetinib is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and imlunestrant due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
cycloSPORINE: (Moderate) Closely monitor cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for cyclosporine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. The dose of cyclosporine may need to be adjusted. Concurrent use may increase cyclosporine exposure causing an increased risk for cyclosporine-related adverse events. Cyclosporine is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Dabigatran: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in dabigatran-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 50 mL/minute. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 50 mL/minute when dabigatran is administered for treatment or reduction in risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) or prophylaxis of DVT or PE following hip replacement surgery. Avoid coadministration in patients with CrCl less than 30 mL/minute in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Serum concentrations of dabigatran are expected to be higher in patients with renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal function. Dabigatran is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Daraxonrasib: (Major) Reduce the daraxonrasib dosage to 150 mg once daily if concomitant use with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase daraxonrasib exposure and the risk for daraxonrasib-related adverse effects. Daraxonrasib is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor was observed to increase daraxonrasib overall exposure by 1.8-fold.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and darunavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Digoxin: (Moderate) Increase monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and watch for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity when starting, adjusting, or discontinuing imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase digoxin exposure. Digoxin is a P-gp substrate with a narrow therapeutic index and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase digoxin overall exposure by 1.4-fold.
Dolutegravir: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; lamiVUDine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Moderate) Monitor for increased toxicity of dolutegravir if coadministered with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase the plasma concentrations of dolutegravir. Dolutegravir is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with imlunestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
DOXOrubicin Liposomal: (Major) Avoid coadministration of imlunestrant with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
DOXOrubicin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of imlunestrant with doxorubicin due to the risk for increased systemic exposure of doxorubicin resulting in increased treatment-related adverse reactions. Doxorubicin is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Concurrent use of P-gp inhibitors with doxorubicin has resulted in clinically significant interactions.
Edoxaban: (Major) Consider an edoxaban dosage reduction for patients being treated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) if concomitant use of imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase edoxaban exposure; edoxaban is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. An edoxaban dose reduction to 30 mg PO once daily is recommended by the manufacturer for use with certain P-gp inhibitors; however, because use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors was limited to only certain drugs that inhibit P-gp in DVT/PE clinical trials, clinicians should use professional judgment and guide edoxaban dose adjustments based on patient response if coadministered with imlunestrant. Based on clinical experience in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant use of imlunestrant. Increased concentrations of edoxaban may occur during concomitant use of imlunestrant; monitor for increased adverse effects of edoxaban.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with imlunestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with imlunestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold. (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and cobicistat. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold. (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with imlunestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with imlunestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with imlunestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and encorafenib. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Ensartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of ensartinib with imlunestrant due to the risk for increased ensartinib exposure which may increase the risk for ensartinib-related adverse reactions. Ensartinib is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ensitrelvir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and enzalutamide. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Everolimus: (Moderate) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations as appropriate and watch for everolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. The dose of everolimus may need to be reduced. Everolimus is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors may decrease the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells and increase everolimus blood concentrations.
Ezetimibe; Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and phenytoin. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Glecaprevir; Pibrentasvir: (Moderate) Caution is advised with coadministration of glecaprevir and imlunestrant as increased plasma concentrations of glecaprevir may occur resulting in increased risk of glecaprevir-related adverse events. Glecaprevir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pibrentasvir-related adverse effects if concomitant use of imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pibrentasvir exposure. Pibrentasvir is a substrate of BCRP and P-gp and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and idelalisib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and itraconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Ketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with imlunestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Lapatinib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lapatinib-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Lapatinib is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Increased plasma concentrations of lapatinib are likely.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of imlunestrant with oral lefamulin unless the benefits outweigh the risks as concurrent use may increase lefamulin exposure and adverse effects; imlunestrant may be administered with intravenous lefamulin. Lefamulin is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and combination letermovir plus cyclosporine is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Levoketoconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ketoconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and lonafarnib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Loperamide: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Moderate) Monitor for loperamide-associated adverse reactions, such as CNS effects and cardiac toxicities (i.e., syncope, ventricular tachycardia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, cardiac arrest), if coadministered with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase loperamide exposure. Loperamide is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased loperamide plasma concentrations by 2- to 3-fold.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ritonavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Lovastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in lovastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase lovastatin exposure. Lovastatin is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and lumacaftor; ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Maraviroc: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in maraviroc-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase maraviroc exposure. Maraviroc is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mavorixafor: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mavorixafor-related adverse effects and reduce the mavorixafor dosage if needed by 100 mg/day to a minimum of 200 mg/day during concomitant use with imlunestrant. Concomitant use may increase mavorixafor exposure. Mavorixafor is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Mefloquine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in mefloquine-related adverse effects if concomitant use of imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mefloquine exposure. Mefloquine is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and mifepristone. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and mitotane. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Morphine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in morphine-related adverse reactions, including hypotension, sedation, and respiratory depression, if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary; decrease the dose of morphine as necessary. Morphine is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with P-gp inhibitors can increase morphine exposure by about 2-fold.
Naldemedine: (Moderate) Monitor for naldemedine-related adverse reactions if coadministered with imlunestrant. Naldemedine plasma concentrations may increase during concomitant use. Naldemedine is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of sirolimus and imlunestrant. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and increase the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and nefazodone. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and nelfinavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ritonavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of pazopanib and imlunestrant due to the potential for increased pazopanib exposure. Pazopanib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor. Consider selection of an alternative concomitant medication with no or minimal potential to inhibit BCRP or P-gp.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and phenytoin. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Pitavastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in pitavastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase pitavastatin exposure. Pitavastatin is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and posaconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Posaconazole exposure may also be increased. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and posaconazole is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Pralsetinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant with pralsetinib due to the risk of increased pralsetinib exposure which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. If concomitant use is necessary, reduce the daily dose of pralsetinib by 100 mg. Pralsetinib is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased the overall exposure of pralsetinib by 1.8-fold.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Probenecid; Colchicine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of colchicine and imlunestrant due to the risk for increased colchicine exposure which may increase the risk for adverse effects. Concomitant use is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Additionally, this combination is contraindicated if colchicine is being used for cardiovascular risk reduction. If concomitant use is necessary outside of these scenarios, consider a colchicine dosage reduction. Specific dosage reduction recommendations are available for colchicine tablets for some indications; it is unclear if these dosage recommendations are appropriate for other products or indications. For colchicine tablets being used for gout prophylaxis, reduce the dose from 0.6 mg twice daily to 0.3 mg once daily or from 0.6 mg once daily to 0.3 mg once every other day. For colchicine tablets being used for gout treatment, reduce the dose from 1.2 mg followed by 0.6 mg to 0.6 mg without an additional dose. For colchicine tablets being used for Familial Mediterranean Fever, the maximum daily dose is 0.6 mg. Colchicine is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ranolazine: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in ranolazine-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary and consider a ranolazine dosage adjustment. Concomitant use may increase ranolazine exposure. Ranolazine is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and relacorilant. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Relugolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral imlunestrant. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer imlunestrant at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of imlunestrant is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of relugolix and oral imlunestrant. Concomitant use may increase relugolix exposure and the risk of relugolix-related adverse effects. If concomitant use is necessary, administer imlunestrant at least 6 hours after relugolix and monitor for adverse reactions. Alternatively, relugolix therapy may be interrupted for up to 14 days if a short course of imlunestrant is required; if treatment is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume relugolix with a 360 mg loading dose followed by 120 mg once daily. Relugolix is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid coadministration of repotrectinib with imlunestrant due to increased repotrectinib exposure which may increase the risk for repotrectinib-related adverse effects. Repotrectinib is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib at a dose of at least 600 mg/day is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and rifampin. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and rifapentine. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
rifAXIMin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rifaximin-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase rifaximin exposure. In patients with hepatic impairment, a potential additive effect of reduced metabolism may further increase systemic rifaximin exposure. Rifaximin is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with another P-gp inhibitor increased rifaximin overall exposure by 124-fold.
Rimegepant: (Major) Avoid a second dose of rimegepant within 48 hours if coadministered with imlunestrant; concurrent use may increase rimegepant exposure. Rimegepant is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and ritonavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Rosuvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Rosuvastatin; Ezetimibe: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in rosuvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, during concomitant use with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase rosuvastatin exposure. Rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use has been observed to increase rosuvastatin overall exposure by 1.5-fold.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and saquinavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Saquinavir exposure may also be increased. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and saquinavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and barbiturates. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Silodosin: (Major) Avoid coadministration of silodosin and imlunestrant due to the potential for increased silodosin exposure. In vitro data indicate that silodosin is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Simvastatin: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in simvastatin-related adverse reactions, including myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase simvastatin exposure. Simvastatin is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of imlunestrant. Coadministration may increase sirolimus concentrations and the risk for sirolimus-related adverse effects. Sirolimus is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and St. John's wort. If concomitant use is necessary, increase imlunestrant dose to 600 mg daily. Concurrent use may decrease imlunestrant exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inducer reduced imlunestrant overall exposure by 42%.
Talazoparib: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in talazoparib-related adverse reactions if concomitant use of imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase talazoparib exposure. Talazoparib is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Temsirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for an increase in temsirolimus-related adverse reactions if coadministration with imlunestrant is necessary due to the risk of increased temsirolimus exposure. Temsirolimus is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration is likely to increase plasma concentrations of temsirolimus.
Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Moderate) Monitor for tenofovir alafenamide-related adverse effects if concomitant use with imlunestrant is necessary. Concomitant use may increase tenofovir alafenamide exposure. Tenofovir alafenamide is a P-gp and BCRP substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. Concomitant use with another P-gp inhibitor increased tenofovir alafenamide overall exposure by 2.65-fold.
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Moderate) Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with imlunestrant may result in increased plasma concentrations of tenofovir, leading to an increase in tenofovir-related adverse effects. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and tipranavir. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Tipranavir exposure may also be increased. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and P-gp inhibitor and tipranavir is a P-gp substrate and strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Topotecan: (Major) Avoid coadministration of imlunestrant with oral topotecan due to increased topotecan exposure; imlunestrant may be administered with intravenous topotecan. Coadministration increases the risk of topotecan-related adverse reactions. Oral topotecan is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and tucatinib. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Limit the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 50 mg if coadministered with imlunestrant. Concurrent use may increase ubrogepant exposure and the risk of adverse effects. Ubrogepant is a BCRP and P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a BCRP and P-gp inhibitor.
Venetoclax: (Major) Reduce the dose of venetoclax by at least 50% and monitor for venetoclax toxicity (e.g., hematologic toxicity, GI toxicity, and tumor lysis syndrome) if coadministered with imlunestrant due to the potential for increased venetoclax exposure. Venetoclax is a P-gp substrate; imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor. Coadministration with a single dose of another P-gp inhibitor increased venetoclax exposure by 78% in a drug interaction study.
vinCRIStine Liposomal: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of imlunestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
vinCRIStine: (Moderate) Monitor for vincristine-related adverse reactions if coadministration of imlunestrant is necessary as concurrent use may increase vincristine exposure. Vincristine is a P-gp substrate and imlunestrant is a P-gp inhibitor.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and clarithromycin. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of imlunestrant and voriconazole. If concomitant use is necessary, decrease the imlunestrant dose to 200 mg daily. Concurrent use may increase imlunestrant exposure and the risk for imlunestrant-related adverse effects. Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use with another strong CYP3A inhibitor increased imlunestrant overall exposure by 2.1-fold.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    infertility
    General Information
    Based on findings in animals, imlunestrant may cause infertility both in people who may become pregnant and people who can cause pregnancy in others; these effects were reversible in animal studies.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infertility
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    musculoskeletal pain
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain occurred in 30% of patients treated with imlunestrant compared with 29% of those who received either fulvestrant or exemestane in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 3.7% vs. 1.9%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue occurred in 23% of patients treated with imlunestrant compared with 14% of those who received either fulvestrant or exemestane in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.3% vs. 0.6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    constipation, diarrhea
    General Information
    Diarrhea (22% vs. 12%; grade 3 or 4, 0.6% vs. 0%) and constipation (10% vs. 6%; grade 3 or 4, 0% vs. 0.3%) occurred more often in patients treated with imlunestrant compared with those who received either fulvestrant or exemestane in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      constipation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nausea, vomiting
    General Information
    Nausea occurred in 17% of patients treated with imlunestrant compared with 13% of those who received either fulvestrant or exemestane in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.3% vs. 0%); vomiting was also reported in 9% of patients who received imlunestrant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, dyspepsia
    General Information
    Abdominal pain occurred in 10% of patients treated with imlunestrant compared with 6% of those who received either fulvestrant or exemestane in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial (grade 3 or 4, 0.3% vs. 0.6%). Decreased appetite/anorexia (8%) and dyspepsia (2.8%) were also reported in patients who received imlunestrant.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    stomatitis
    General Information
    Stomatitis occurred in 2.4% of patients treated with imlunestrant in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache occurred in 9% of patients treated with imlunestrant in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough
    General Information
    Cough occurred in 9% of patients treated with imlunestrant in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hot flashes
    General Information
    Hot flashes occurred in 7% of patients treated with imlunestrant in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hot flashes
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pruritus
    General Information
    Pruritus occurred in 3.7% of patients treated with imlunestrant in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    pleural effusion
    General Information
    Pleural effusion occurred in 1.2% of patients treated with imlunestrant in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      pleural effusion
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported in patients treated with imlunestrant in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial. Decreases from baseline in platelets occurred more often in patients who received imlunestrant compared to those who received fulvestrant or exemestane (16% vs. 14%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8% vs. 1.3%); decreases in hemoglobin (30% vs. 35%; grade 3 or 4, 1.2% vs. 3.4%) and neutrophils (26% vs. 29%; grade 3 or 4, 4% vs. 4.7%) occurred more often in the fulvestrant/exemestane arm.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      neutropenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypocalcemia
    General Information
    Hypocalcemia has been reported in patients treated with imlunestrant in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial, with decreases from baseline in calcium occurring more often in patients who received imlunestrant compared to those who received fulvestrant or exemestane (26% vs. 19%; grade 3 or 4, 0% vs. 0.6%).
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypocalcemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes have been reported in patients treated with imlunestrant in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial, although increases from baseline in AST (25% vs. 27%; grade 3 or 4, 1.9% vs. 2.3%) and ALT (21% vs. 23%; grade 3 or 4, 1.3% vs. 1%) occurred less often in patients who received imlunestrant compared with those who received fulvestrant or exemestane.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia
    General Information
    Hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia have been reported in patients treated with imlunestrant in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial, although increases from baseline in triglycerides (21% vs. 22%; grade 3 or 4, 0% vs. 1.2%) and cholesterol (10% vs. 12%) occurred less often in patients who received imlunestrant compared with those who received fulvestrant or exemestane.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertriglyceridemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      GSTerm Name
      hypercholesterolemia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From

Description
  Text
  Imlunestrant is an oral estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist indicated for the treatment of adults with ER-positive, HER2-negative, ESR1-mutated advanced or metastatic breast cancer with disease progression following at least one line of endocrine therapy. Imlunestrant was approved by the FDA in September 2025.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  Imlunestrant is an estrogen receptor antagonist; it binds to estrogen receptor (ER) alpha. In vitro, imlunestrant-induced degradation of ER-alpha leads to the inhibition of ER-dependent gene transcription and cellular proliferation in ER-positive breast cancer cells. Imlunestrant demonstrated in vitro and in vivo antitumor activity in ER-positive breast cancer xenograft models, including models with ESR1 mutations.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The Cmax of imlunestrant at steady-state is 141 ng/mL (CV, 45%) and the AUC is 2,400 ng x h/mL (CV, 46%); the median Tmax is 4 hours. The Cmax and AUC of imlunestrant increase in a dose-proportional manner over 0.5 to 3 times the approved recommended dosage. Steady-state is reached in approximately 6 days and accumulation is 2.3-fold based on AUC. The absolute oral bioavailability of imlunestrant after a single 400-mg dose is 10% (CV, 32%).
 
The AUC and Cmax of imlunestrant increased by 2-fold and 3.6-fold, respectively, after administration with a low-fat meal (approximately 475 calories with 13% fat, 16% protein, and 71% carbohydrates); the effect of high-fat meal (approximately 800 to 1,000 calories with 500 to 600 calories from fat) on imlunestrant exposures is unknown.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    The AUC of imlunestrant increased by 2.2-fold in subjects with moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment and by 3.1-fold in subjects with severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment. The pharmacokinetics of imlunestrant were not significantly affected in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh class A) hepatic impairment.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (eGFR 30 to 89 mL/min) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of imlunestrant. The effect of severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis on the pharmacokinetics of imlunestrant is unknown.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (28 to 95 years) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of imlunestrant.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Race (White, Asian, Black or African American) or ethnicity (Hispanic/Latino, non-Hispanic/Latino) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of imlunestrant.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (36 kg to 145 kg) did not have a clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of imlunestrant.
    Name
    Other
    Description
    UGT1A1 genetic polymorphisms
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of imlunestrant based on UGT1A1 genetic polymorphisms (e.g., UGT1A1*1/*28 or UGT1A1*28/*28).
  Text
  Imlunestrant is administered orally. It is greater than 99% protein bound in a non-concentration dependent manner. The apparent oral volume of distribution is 8,120 L (CV, 69%). The elimination half-life of imlunestrant is 30 hours with an estimated apparent clearance of 166 L/hour (CV, 51%). Metabolism of imlunestrant is by sulfation, CYP3A4, and direct glucuronidation (UGT1A1, 1A3, 1A8, 1A9, 1A10). After a single radioloabeled dose of imlunestrant, 97% of the dose was recovered in feces (62% as unchanged drug) and 0.3% in urine.
 
Affected cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP3A, P-gp, BCRP
Imlunestrant is a CYP3A substrate, as well as a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor. In vitro, imlunestrant is a CYP2B6 and CYP2C9 inhibitor.

Administration
  General Information
  For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
Hazardous Drugs Classification
Approved by FDA after NIOSH 2024 list was published and meets criteria for NIOSH Table 2 Hazardous Drugs.
Observe and exercise appropriate precautions for handling, preparation, administration, and disposal of hazardous drugs.
Use gloves to handle; double chemotherapy gloves and a protective gown are needed if manipulation is necessary. Cutting, crushing, or otherwise manipulating tablets/capsules will increase exposure.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take on an empty stomach at least 2 hours before food, or 1 hour after food.
Swallow the tablets whole. Do not split, crush, or chew the tablets.
If a dose is missed by 6 hours or more, or if a patient vomits, take the next dose at the next scheduled time.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    400 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    400 mg PO once daily.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Infants
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Baseline Hepatic Impairment
Child-Pugh class A: No dosage adjustments are necessary.
Child-Pugh class B or C: Reduce the dose of imlunestrant to 200 mg PO once daily. Monitor for an increase in the incidence and severity of adverse reactions.
 
Treatment-Related Hepatotoxicity
Baseline AST/ALT less than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN)
AST/ALT more than 5 to 20 times ULN without concurrent hyperbilirubinemia: Hold imlunestrant therapy. When AST/ALT resolves to baseline or less than 3 times ULN, reduce the dose of imlunestrant to 200 mg once daily and resume therapy. Discontinue therapy for patients already receiving a dose of 200 mg once daily.
AST/ALT more than 20 times ULN without concurrent hyperbilirubinemia: Discontinue imlunestrant.
AST/ALT 3 times ULN or more with total bilirubin 2 times ULN or more in the absence of cholestasis: Discontinue imlunestrant.
Baseline AST/ALT 1.5 times ULN or more
AST/ALT 3 times baseline or higher, or 8 times ULN or higher (whichever is the lower threshold): Hold imlunestrant therapy. When AST/ALT resolves to baseline or less than 3 times ULN, reduce the dose of imlunestrant to 200 mg once daily and resume therapy. Discontinue therapy for patients already receiving a dose of 200 mg once daily.
AST/ALT more than 20 times ULN without concurrent hyperbilirubinemia: Discontinue imlunestrant.
AST/ALT 2 times ULN or more with total bilirubin 2 times ULN or more in the absence of cholestasis: Discontinue imlunestrant.
Any baseline AST/ALT
Persistent or recurrent transaminitis with AST/ALT greater than 3 to 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN): Hold imlunestrant therapy. When AST/ALT resolves to baseline or to less than 3 times ULN, resume imlunestrant at the same dose level.
  Renal Impairment
  Specific guidelines for dosage adjustments in renal impairment are not available; it appears that no dosage adjustments are needed.
