=== Mobocertinib (Merck Manual Professional) ===
Source: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/drug-names-generic-and-brand (productid 5357)
Retrieved: 2026-09-25
NURSING QUICK-REFERENCE SUMMARY
Auto-generated on 2026-09-25 from the prescribing information in this file; full details follow below.

Drug Class: NOTE:

Routes: oral; Common adult doses: Dosage not available.

Common Side Effects (excluding routine GI upset): atrial fibrillation, av block, bundle-branch block, pr prolongation, qt prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular tachycardia, cheilitis, gastroesophageal reflux, odynophagia, oral ulceration, arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, chest pain (unspecified), musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, cough, dyspnea, rhinorrhea, infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, blepharitis, blurred vision, corneal edema, ocular discharge, ocular hemorrhage, ocular pruritus

In an Overdose: No overdose/antidote information is listed in this file.

Key Nursing Considerations: Contraindications/precautions: NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market.

Brand Names
  - EXKIVITY

Indication Specific Dosing
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
  Indications
    Related Indications
      Heading
      for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 20 insertion mutations, with progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy†
      Routes
        Heading
        Oral dosage
        Route Age Groups
          Heading
          Adults
          Dosage Description
          Dosage not available.
    Routes
    Heading
    For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)†

Contraindications And Precautions
  Headline
  Contraindications/Warnings/Precautions
  Contraindications And Precautions
    Headline
    Drug Interactions
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
The coadministration of certain medications may lead to harm and require avoidance or therapy modification; review all drug interactions prior to concomitant use of other medications.
    Headline
    Hypersensitivity
    General Information
    This medication is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to it or any of its components.
    Headline
    bradycardia, cardiomyopathy, congenital long QT syndrome, coronary artery disease, females, geriatric, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes
    General Information
    Avoid use of mobocertinib in people with baseline QT prolongation or who have conditions that may increase the risk of QT prolongation or torsade de pointes, including bradycardia, congenital long QT syndrome, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, geriatric adults, females, structural abnormalities that interfere with electrical conduction (e.g., cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease), or in those who have other additional risk factors for QT prolongation or torsade de pointes. The use of other medications that have been associated with QT prolongation or torsade de pointes may further increase risk. The manufacturer of mobocertinib additionally recommends avoidance of medications that are moderate or strong CYP3A inhibitors which may increase mobocertinib exposure and further increase the risk of QT prolongation. Clinical trials of mobocertinib did not enroll patients with a baseline QTc of greater than 470 msec. If use is necessary, monitor the QT interval and electrolytes at baseline and periodically during treatment; increase the frequency of monitoring in patients with risk factors for QT prolongation. Correct any abnormalities in sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium levels prior to beginning therapy. Additionally, due to reports of heart failure in patients treated with mobocertinib and the increased risk in patients with coronary artery disease, monitor left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) at baseline and periodically during treatment for these patients. An interruption of therapy interruption, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients who develop QT prolongation or other cardiotoxicity.
    Headline
    heart failure, hypertension, thoracic radiation therapy
    General Information
    Use mobocertinib with caution in patients with a history of heart failure, or in patients with conditions that could impair left ventricular function including coronary artery disease, uncontrolled hypertension, thoracic radiation therapy and previous anthracycline exposure. Heart failure has been reported with mobocertinib therapy; some cases were fatal. Assess cardiac function (e.g., left ventricular ejection fraction) at baseline and during therapy. An interruption of therapy, dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy may be necessary if cardiotoxicity develops, depending on the severity.
    Headline
    pregnancy
    General Information
    Mobocertinib may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Females of reproductive potential should avoid becoming pregnant while taking mobocertinib. Discuss the potential hazard to the fetus if a patient is or becomes pregnant while taking this drug. Although mobocertinib has not been evaluated in pregnant women, fetal toxicity occurred when pregnant rats received a mobocertinib dose resulting in approximately 1.7-times the exposure that was observed in humans who received the recommended daily dose of 160 mg. Fetal toxicity in this animal study included embryo-fetal death and decreased fetal body weight.
    Headline
    pulmonary disease
    General Information
    Use mobocertinib with caution in patients who have a history of pre-existing pulmonary disease; severe pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease has been reported in patients treated with mobocertinib. Monitor patients for new or worsening respiratory symptoms including fever, cough, or dyspnea. Immediately interrupt mobocertinib therapy in patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms and permanently discontinue therapy if no other potential causes are identified.
    Headline
    contraception requirements, infertility, male-mediated teratogenicity, pregnancy testing, reproductive risk
    General Information
    Counsel patients about the reproductive risk and contraception requirements during mobocertinib treatment. Pregnancy testing should be performed in women of reproductive potential prior to initiating therapy. These women should use effective contraception during therapy and for 1 month after the final mobocertinib dose. Mobocertinib may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives; therefore, advise women to use alternative methods of contraception. Due to the risk of male-mediated teratogenicity, male patients with female partners of reproductive potential should use effective contraception during therapy and for 1 week after the final mobocertinib dose. Based on data from animal studies, infertility may occur in male or female patients who receive mobocertinib.
    Headline
    breast-feeding
    General Information
    It is not known if mobocertinib or its metabolites are secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed infant or on milk production. Because there is a potential for adverse reactions in nursing children from mobocertinib, breast-feeding should be avoided during mobocertinib therapy and for 1 week after the last dose.
    Headline
    renal failure, renal impairment
    General Information
    Reduce the dose of mobocertinib and monitor the QT interval more frequently for patients with severe renal impairment (EGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 by MDRD equation) due to increased mobocertinib exposure which may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions. Data are not available for mobocertinib exposure in patients with renal failure.

Pregnancy And Lactation
  Pregnancy
    General Information
    Mobocertinib may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy, based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies. Females of reproductive potential should avoid becoming pregnant while taking mobocertinib. Discuss the potential hazard to the fetus if a patient is or becomes pregnant while taking this drug. Although mobocertinib has not been evaluated in pregnant women, fetal toxicity occurred when pregnant rats received a mobocertinib dose resulting in approximately 1.7-times the exposure that was observed in humans who received the recommended daily dose of 160 mg. Fetal toxicity in this animal study included embryo-fetal death and decreased fetal body weight.
  Breastfeeding
    General Information
    It is not known if mobocertinib or its metabolites are secreted in human milk or if it has effects on the breast-fed infant or on milk production. Because there is a potential for adverse reactions in nursing children from mobocertinib, breast-feeding should be avoided during mobocertinib therapy and for 1 week after the last dose.

Interactions
Acetaminophen; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Acetaminophen; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Adagrasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and adagrasib due to the potential for increased mobocertinib exposure and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate, adagrasib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor, and both medications have been associated with QT interval prolongation. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Albuterol: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and short-acting beta-agonists although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for QT/QTc prolongation may be greater with long-acting beta-agonists than short-acting beta-agonists.
Albuterol; Budesonide: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and short-acting beta-agonists although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for QT/QTc prolongation may be greater with long-acting beta-agonists than short-acting beta-agonists.
ALFentanil: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of alfentanil and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider reducing the alfentanil dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a weak CYP3A inducer like mobocertinib with alfentanil, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to alfentanil resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to alfentanil. Alfentanil plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Alfuzosin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and alfuzosin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amiodarone: (Major) Concomitant use of amiodarone and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Due to the extremely long half-life of amiodarone, a drug interaction is possible for days to weeks after drug discontinuation.
Amisulpride: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and amisulpride increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Amobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin; Omeprazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and clarithromycin. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Anagrelide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and anagrelide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Apalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and apalutamide. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and apalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Apomorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and apomorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aprepitant, Fosaprepitant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and aprepitant/fosaprepitant; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and aprepitant/fosaprepitant are moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
ARIPiprazole: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and aripiprazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Arsenic Trioxide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and arsenic trioxide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Artemether; Lumefantrine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and artemether increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and artemether; lumefantrine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Asenapine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and asenapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Aspirin, ASA; Butalbital; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Aspirin, ASA; Carisoprodol; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Aspirin, ASA; oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Atazanavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and atazanavir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Atazanavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and atazanavir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and atazanavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Atogepant: (Major) Use an atogepant dose of 60 mg PO once daily for chronic migraine and 30 or 60 mg PO once daily for episodic migraine if concomitant use with mobocertinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease atogepant exposure and reduce efficacy. Atogepant is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a weak CYP3A inducer resulted in a 25% reduction in atogepant overall exposure and a 24% reduction in atogepant peak concentration.
Atomoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and atomoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Avacopan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and avacopan; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and avacopan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Avanafil: (Major) Coadministration of avanafil with mobocertinib is not recommended by the manufacturer of avanafil due to the potential for decreased avanafil efficacy. Avanafil is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a CYP3A inducer. Although the potential effect of CYP inducers on the pharmacokinetics of avanafil has not been evaluated, plasma concentrations may decrease.
Azithromycin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and azithromycin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Barbiturates: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Bedaquiline: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and bedaquiline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Benzhydrocodone; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of benzhydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of benzhydrocodone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of benzhydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzhydrocodone is a prodrug for hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Berotralstat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and berotralstat; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and berotralstat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Bexarotene: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and bexarotene. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and bexarotene is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Bictegravir; Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and lenacapavir; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Bismuth Subcitrate Potassium; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bismuth Subsalicylate; metroNIDAZOLE; Tetracycline: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Bosentan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and bosentan. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and bosentan is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Buprenorphine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Buprenorphine; Naloxone: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and buprenorphine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for decreased efficacy of buprenorphine, and potentially the onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine, if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of buprenorphine until stable drug effects are achieved. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a buprenorphine dose reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Buprenorphine is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Butalbital; Acetaminophen; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Butalbital; Aspirin; Caffeine; Codeine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cabotegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
carBAMazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and carbamazepine. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Concomitant use may also decrease carbamazepine concentrations. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer; carbamazepine is a CYP3A substrate and strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Cariprazine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of cariprazine and mobocertinib. Concurrent use may decrease cariprazine exposure which may reduce its efficacy. Cariprazine is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Celecoxib; Tramadol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Cenobamate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and cenobamate. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cenobamate is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Ceritinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ceritinib. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ceritinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Chloramphenicol: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and chloramphenicol. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and chloramphenicol is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Chloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and chloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Chlorpheniramine; Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Chlorpheniramine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
chlorproMAZINE: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and chlorpromazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Cholera Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the live cholera vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to cholera bacteria after receiving the vaccine.
Ciprofloxacin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ciprofloxacin; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ciprofloxacin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Cisapride: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and cisapride due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Citalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and citalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and clarithromycin. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Clofazimine: (Major) Concomitant use of clofazimine and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
cloZAPine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and clozapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for loss of clozapine efficacy if coadministered with mobocertinib. Concurrent use may decrease clozapine exposure. Clozapine is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Codeine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Dexbrompheniramine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; guaiFENesin; Pseudoephedrine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Phenylephrine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Codeine; Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of codeine and signs of opioid withdrawal in patients who have developed physical dependence if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of codeine as needed. It is recommended to avoid this combination when codeine is being used for cough. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of codeine and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Codeine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 to morphine, and by CYP3A to norcodeine; norcodeine does not have analgesic properties. Mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with mobocertinib can increase norcodeine levels via increased CYP3A metabolism, resulting in decreased metabolism via CYP2D6 resulting in lower morphine levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Conivaptan: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and conivaptan; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and conivaptan is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Conjugated Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; Bazedoxifene: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Conjugated Estrogens; medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Crizotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and crizotinib; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and crizotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
cycloSPORINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and cyclosporine; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Concurrent use may also decrease cyclosporine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Closely monitor cyclosporine concentrations and adjust the dose of cyclosporine as appropriate if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and weak CYP3A inducer; cyclosporine is a CYP3A substrate and moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Dabrafenib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and dabrafenib. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and dabrafenib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Darunavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and darunavir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and darunavir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Darunavir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%. (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and darunavir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and darunavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Dasatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and dasatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Degarelix: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., degarelix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dengue Tetravalent Vaccine, Live: (Contraindicated) Avoid administration of the live dengue virus vaccine with immunosuppressive drug therapy and prior to immune recovery following treatment with immunosuppressive drug therapy. When feasible, administer indicated live virus vaccines at least 4 weeks before planned immunosuppression or wait until at least 3 months after discontinuation. The time to restoration of immune competence may be longer in some patients. Patients with altered immunocompetence may be at increased risk for severe adverse reactions due to uninhibited growth of the attenuated live virus. Additionally, vaccines may be less effective if administered during a period of altered immunocompetence.
Desflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Desogestrel: Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Desogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Deutetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and deutetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with deutetrabenazine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range.
dexmedeTOMIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of dexmedetomidine and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dextromethorphan; quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
diazePAM: (Moderate) Monitor patients for decreased efficacy of diazepam if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary. Concurrent use may decrease diazepam exposure. Diazepam is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a CYP3A inducer.
Dienogest; Estradiol valerate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
dilTIAZem: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and diltiazem; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and diltiazem is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Disopyramide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and disopyramide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dofetilide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and dofetilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dolutegravir; Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Donepezil: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Donepezil; Memantine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and donepezil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Doravirine: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mobocertinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; Islatravir: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mobocertinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Doravirine; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate: (Moderate) Concurrent administration of doravirine and mobocertinib may result in decreased doravirine exposure, resulting in potential loss of virologic control. Doravirine is a CYP3A substrate; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Dordaviprone: (Major) Concomitant use of dordaviprone and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Dronedarone: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and dronedarone due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. If use cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
droPERidol: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and droperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Drospirenone: (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Drospirenone; Estetrol: (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Drospirenone; Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Drospirenone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Levomefolate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Duvelisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and duvelisib; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and duvelisib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Efavirenz: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and efavirenz. Concomitant use may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Efavirenz; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and efavirenz. Concomitant use may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Efavirenz; lamiVUDine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and efavirenz. Concomitant use may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Use may also increase the risk of QT prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and efavirenz is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Elagolix: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and elagolix. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Elagolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and elagolix. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and elagolix is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%. (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Eliglustat: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and eliglustat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Alafenamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Elvitegravir; Cobicistat; Emtricitabine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and cobicistat. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and cobicistat is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir alafenamide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Emtricitabine; Rilpivirine; Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Encorafenib: (Major) Avoid concurrent use of encorafenib with mobocertinib due to the risk for decreased mobocertinib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate, encorafenib is a strong CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Ensitrelvir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ensitrelvir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ensitrelvir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Entrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and entrectinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Enzalutamide: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and enzalutamide. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and enzalutamide is a strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
eriBULin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and eribulin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Erythromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and erythromycin; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and erythromycin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Escitalopram: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and escitalopram increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Eslicarbazepine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and eslicarbazepine. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and eslicarbazepine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Esterified Estrogens: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Esterified Estrogens; methylTESTOSTERone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Estradiol; Levonorgestrel: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Estradiol; Norethindrone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Estradiol; Norgestimate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Estradiol; Progesterone: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Estrogens affected by CYP3A inducers: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norelgestromin: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norethindrone Acetate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Ethinyl Estradiol; Norgestrel: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Ethynodiol Diacetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Etonogestrel: (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Etonogestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Etrasimod: (Major) Concomitant use of etrasimod and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Etrasimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Etravirine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and etravirine. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and etravirine is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Fedratinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and fedratinib; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fedratinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
fentaNYL: (Moderate) Consider an increased dose of fentanyl and monitor for evidence of opioid withdrawal if concurrent use of mobocertinib is necessary. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider reducing the fentanyl dosage and monitor for evidence of respiratory depression. Coadministration of a CYP3A inducer like mobocertinib with fentanyl, a CYP3A substrate, may decrease exposure to fentanyl resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in a patient who has developed physical dependence to fentanyl. Fentanyl plasma concentrations will increase once the inducer is stopped, which may increase or prolong the therapeutic and adverse effects, including serious respiratory depression.
Fexinidazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and fexinidazole due to the risk for decreased mobocertinib exposure and efficacy and additive risk for QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate, fexinidazole is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Fingolimod: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and fingolimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Flecainide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and flecainide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fluconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and fluconazole; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluconazole is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
fluPHENAZine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and fluphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
fluvoxaMINE: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and fluvoxamine; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fluvoxamine is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Fosamprenavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and fosamprenavir; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and fosamprenavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Foscarnet: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and foscarnet increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin (injectable): (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosfomycin: (Major) Concomitant use of injectable fosfomycin and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Fosphenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Fostemsavir: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and fostemsavir increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with fostemsavir is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 4 times the recommended daily dose.
Gemifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and gemifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and gemtuzumab increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gepirone: (Major) Concomitant use of gepirone and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. QT prolongation with gepirone has been observed at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Gepotidacin: (Major) Concomitant use of gepotidacin and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Gilteritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and gilteritinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Givinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of givinostat and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with givinostat is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 5 times the maximum recommended dose.
Glasdegib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and glasdegib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Goserelin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., goserelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Granisetron: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and granisetron increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Grapefruit juice: (Major) Advise patients to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice during mobocertinib treatment due to the risk for increased mobocertinib exposure and adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and grapefruit juice is a CYP3A inhibitor.
Halogenated Anesthetics: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Haloperidol: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and haloperidol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The intravenous route may carry a higher risk for haloperidol-induced QT/QTc prolongation than other routes of administration.
Histrelin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., histrelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Homatropine; HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
HYDROcodone; Ibuprofen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of hydrocodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of hydrocodone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of hydrocodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Hydrocodone is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease hydrocodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Hydroxychloroquine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
hydrOXYzine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and hydroxyzine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ibutilide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and ibutilide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Idelalisib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and idelalisib. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Iloperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and iloperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Imatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and imatinib; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and imatinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Inotuzumab Ozogamicin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and inotuzumab increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ipratropium; Albuterol: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and short-acting beta-agonists although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for QT/QTc prolongation may be greater with long-acting beta-agonists than short-acting beta-agonists.
Isavuconazonium: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and isavuconazonium/isavuconazole; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and isavuconazonium is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Isoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Isradipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of isradipine if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary. Concomitant use may decrease isradipine exposure. Isradipine is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Itraconazole: (Major) Avoid mobocertinib use during and for 2 weeks after itraconazole treatment. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and itraconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Itraconazole has been observed to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 527%.
Ivosidenib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and ivosidenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and mobocertinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of mobocertinib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of ketoconazole is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Lansoprazole; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and clarithromycin. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Lapatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and lapatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lefamulin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and lefamulin; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lefamulin is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Lenacapavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and lenacapavir; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lenacapavir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Lenvatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and lenvatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Letermovir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and letermovir; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and letermovir is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. If the patient is also receiving cyclosporine, avoid concomitant use. When given with cyclosporine, the combined effect of letermovir and cyclosporine on CYP3A4 substrates may be similar to a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%, while use with a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Leuprolide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., leuprolide) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levalbuterol: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and short-acting beta-agonists although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for QT/QTc prolongation may be greater with long-acting beta-agonists than short-acting beta-agonists.
levoFLOXacin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and levofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Levoketoconazole: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of ketoconazole and mobocertinib due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase the exposure of mobocertinib, further increasing the risk for adverse effects. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ketoconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of ketoconazole is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Levonorgestrel: (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Bisglycinate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Levonorgestrel; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous Fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Lithium: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and lithium increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lofexidine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and lofexidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lonafarnib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and lonafarnib. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lonafarnib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Loperamide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Loperamide; Simethicone: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and loperamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Lopinavir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ritonavir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%. (Major) If possible, avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and lopinavir; ritonavir due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation. Concomitant use may also increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for other mobocertinib-related adverse effects; mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lopinavir; ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor.
Lorlatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and lorlatinib. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and combination lumacaftor; ivacaftor acts as a strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Lumacaftor; Ivacaftor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and lumacaftor; ivacaftor. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and combination lumacaftor; ivacaftor acts as a strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Lumateperone: (Major) Avoid coadministration of lumateperone and mobocertinib as concurrent use may decrease lumateperone exposure which may reduce efficacy. Lumateperone is a CYP3A substrate; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Macimorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and macimorelin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mavorixafor: (Major) Concomitant use of mavorixafor and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with mavorixafor is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
medroxyPROGESTERone: (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Mefloquine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and mefloquine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concomitant use may also decrease mefloquine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mefloquine is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Meperidine: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of meperidine and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of meperidine as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of meperidine and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Meperidine is a substrate of CYP3A; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease meperidine exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Metaproterenol: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and short-acting beta-agonists although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for QT/QTc prolongation may be greater with long-acting beta-agonists than short-acting beta-agonists.
Methadone: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and methadone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Additionally, monitor for reduced efficacy of methadone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary. Consider increasing the dose of methadone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of methadone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Methadone is a substrate of CYP3A, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use can decrease methadone exposure resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Methohexital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
metroNIDAZOLE: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and metronidazole increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Midostaurin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and midostaurin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
miFEPRIStone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and mifepristone. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and mifepristone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%. If concomitant use is necessary, consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring.
Mirtazapine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and mirtazapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Mitotane: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and mitotane. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and mitotane is a strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Moxifloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and moxifloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Nafcillin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and nafcillin. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nafcillin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nanoparticle Albumin-Bound Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced sirolimus efficacy if sirolimus is coadministered with mobocertinib. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nefazodone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and nefazodone. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nefazodone is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Nelfinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and nelfinavir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nelfinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Netupitant, Fosnetupitant; Palonosetron: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and netupitant; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and netupitant is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Nilotinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and nilotinib; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
niMODipine: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of nimodipine if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary as concomitant use may decrease plasma concentrations of nimodipine. Nimodipine is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirmatrelvir; Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ritonavir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%. (Moderate) Monitor for a diminished response to nirmatrelvir if concomitant use of mobocertinib is necessary. Concomitant use of nirmatrelvir and mobocertinib may reduce the therapeutic effect of nirmatrelvir. Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Nirogacestat: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and nirogacestat; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and nirogacestat is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Nisoldipine: (Major) Avoid coadministration of nisoldipine with mobocertinib as concurrent use may decrease nisoldipine exposure and efficacy. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered. Nisoldipine is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Coadministration with a strong CYP3A inducer lowered nisoldipine plasma concentrations to undetectable levels.
Norethindrone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Norethindrone: (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Norethindrone; Ethinyl Estradiol; Ferrous fumarate: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Norgestimate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Norgestrel: (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Ofloxacin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and ofloxacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; FLUoxetine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and fluoxetine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
OLANZapine; Samidorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and olanzapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Omeprazole; Amoxicillin; Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and rifabutin. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Ondansetron: (Major) Concomitant use of ondansetron and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Do not exceed 16 mg of IV ondansetron in a single dose; the degree of QT prolongation associated with ondansetron significantly increases above this dose.
Osilodrostat: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and osilodrostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Osimertinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and osimertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Oxaliplatin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and oxaliplatin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
oxyCODONE: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of oxycodone and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of oxycodone as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of oxycodone and frequently monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Oxycodone is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease oxycodone levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Ozanimod: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and ozanimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ozanimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
PACLitaxel: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of paclitaxel if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Pacritinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and pacritinib may decrease mobocertinib exposure and efficacy and increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate, pacritinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer, and both medications have been associated with QT/QTc prolongation. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Paliperidone: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and paliperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Panobinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and panobinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pasireotide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and pasireotide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PAZOPanib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and pazopanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pentamidine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and systemic pentamidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
PENTobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Perphenazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Perphenazine; Amitriptyline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and perphenazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Pexidartinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and pexidartinib. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and pexidartinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
PHENobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
PHENobarbital; Hyoscyamine; Atropine; Scopolamine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Phenytoin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and phenytoin/fosphenytoin. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and phenytoin/fosphenytoin are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Pimavanserin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and pimavanserin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Pimozide: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and pimozide due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Pitolisant: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and pitolisant increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ponesimod: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and ponesimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Ponesimod has a limited effect on the QT/QTc interval at therapeutic doses but may cause bradycardia and atrioventricular conduction delays which may increase the risk for TdP in patients with a prolonged QT/QTc interval.
Posaconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and posaconazole. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and posaconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Primaquine: (Major) Concomitant use of primaquine and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Primidone: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Procainamide: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and procainamide increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Prochlorperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and prochlorperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Progesterone: (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Progestins: (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Promethazine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Dextromethorphan: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Promethazine; Phenylephrine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and promethazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Propafenone: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and propafenone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
QUEtiapine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and quetiapine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNIDine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and quinidine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
quiNINE: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and quinine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Quizartinib: (Major) Concomitant use of quizartinib and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ranolazine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and ranolazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relacorilant: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and relacorilant. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and relacorilant is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Relugolix: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Relugolix; Estradiol; Norethindrone acetate: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., relugolix) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Repotrectinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and repotrectinib. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and repotrectinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
Revumenib: (Major) Concomitant use of revumenib and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ribociclib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ribociclib. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Ribociclib; Letrozole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ribociclib. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ribociclib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Rifabutin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and rifabutin. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifabutin is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
rifAMPin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and rifampin. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifampin is a strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Rifapentine: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and rifapentine. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rifapentine is a strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Rilpivirine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and rilpivirine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with rilpivirine is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Rilzabrutinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and rilzabrutinib; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and rilzabrutinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
risperiDONE: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and risperidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ritlecitinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ritlecitinib; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritlecitinib is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Ritonavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and ritonavir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and ritonavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
romiDEPsin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and romidepsin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Saquinavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and saquinavir. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and saquinavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) vaccines: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) mRNA Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
SARS-CoV-2 Virus (COVID-19) Recombinant Spike Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine: (Moderate) Patients receiving immunosuppressant medications may have a diminished response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine. When feasible, administer indicated vaccines prior to initiating immunosuppressant medications. Counsel patients receiving immunosuppressant medications about the possibility of a diminished vaccine response and to continue to follow precautions to avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus after receiving the vaccine.
Secobarbital: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and barbiturates. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and barbiturates are strong CYP3A inducers. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
Segesterone Acetate; Ethinyl Estradiol: (Major) Patients taking both estrogens and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. If used for contraception, an alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for 1 month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. Patients taking these hormones for other indications may need to be monitored for reduced clinical effect while on mobocertinib, with dose adjustments made based on clinical efficacy. Estrogens are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concurrent administration may increase estrogen elimination. (Major) Women taking both progestins and mobocertinib should report breakthrough bleeding to their prescribers. An alternate or additional form of contraception should be considered in patients prescribed mobocertinib. Higher-dose hormonal regimens may be indicated where acceptable or applicable. The alternative or additional contraceptive agent may need to be continued for one month after discontinuation of mobocertinib. For patients on hormone replacement treatments (HRT) with progestins, monitor for altered clinical response, such as increased hot flashes, vaginal dryness, changes in withdrawal bleeding, or other signs of decreased hormonal efficacy. Progestins are CYP3A substrates and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Selpercatinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and selpercatinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sertraline: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and sertraline increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with sertraline is not clinical significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 2 times the maximum recommended dose.
Sevoflurane: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and halogenated anesthetics increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Short-acting beta-agonists: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and short-acting beta-agonists although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for QT/QTc prolongation may be greater with long-acting beta-agonists than short-acting beta-agonists.
Sildenafil: (Moderate) Monitor for decreased efficacy of sildenafil if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease sildenafil exposure. Sildenafil is a sensitive CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates an approximately 3-fold increase in sildenafil clearance with concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers.
Siponimod: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and siponimod increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sirolimus: (Moderate) Monitor sirolimus concentrations and adjust sirolimus dosage as appropriate during concomitant use of mobocertinib. Concomitant use may decrease sirolimus exposure and efficacy. Sirolimus is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Solifenacin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and solifenacin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
SORAfenib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and sorafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotalol: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and sotalol increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Sotorasib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and sotorasib. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Use of a moderate CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 58%.
St. John's Wort, Hypericum perforatum: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and St. John's Wort. Coadministration may decrease mobocertinib exposure resulting in decreased efficacy. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and St. John's Wort is a strong CYP3A inducer. Use of a strong CYP3A inducer is predicted to decrease the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 92%.
SUFentanil: (Moderate) Because the dose of the sufentanil sublingual tablets cannot be titrated, consider an alternate opiate if mobocertinib must be administered. Monitor for reduced efficacy of sufentanil injection and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of sufentanil injection as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of sufentanil injection and frequently monitor for signs or respiratory depression and sedation. Sufentanil is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease sufentanil concentrations; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
SUNItinib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and sunitinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tacrolimus: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and tacrolimus increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. Concurrent use may also decrease tacrolimus concentrations. Monitor tacrolimus serum concentrations as appropriate and adjust tacrolimus dose as needed. Tacrolimus is a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic range; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Taletrectinib: (Major) Concomitant use of taletrectinib and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tamoxifen: (Major) Concomitant use of tamoxifen and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Telavancin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and telavancin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Terbutaline: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and short-acting beta-agonists although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. The risk for QT/QTc prolongation may be greater with long-acting beta-agonists than short-acting beta-agonists.
Tetrabenazine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and tetrabenazine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Thioridazine: (Contraindicated) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and thioridazine due to an increased risk for torsade de pointes (TdP) and QT/QTc prolongation.
Tipranavir: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and tipranavir. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and tipranavir is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Tolterodine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and tolterodine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The risk for tolterodine-associated QT/QTc prolongation may be increased in poor CYP2D6 metabolizers.
Toremifene: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and toremifene increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
traMADol: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Tramadol; Acetaminophen: (Moderate) Monitor for reduced efficacy of tramadol and signs of opioid withdrawal if coadministration with mobocertinib is necessary; consider increasing the dose of tramadol as needed. If mobocertinib is discontinued, consider a dose reduction of tramadol and frequently monitor for seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Tramadol is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. Concomitant use with CYP3A inducers can decrease tramadol levels; this may result in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence.
Trandolapril; Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and verapamil; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
traZODone: (Major) Concomitant use of trazodone and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Triclabendazole: (Major) Concomitant use of triclabendazole and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Trifluoperazine: (Minor) QT/QTc prolongation can occur with concomitant use of mobocertinib and trifluoperazine although the risk of developing torsade de pointes (TdP) is low. Additional steps to minimize the risk of QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as avoidance, electrolyte monitoring and repletion, and ECG monitoring, may be considered in patients with additional risk factors for TdP.
Triptorelin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and androgen deprivation therapy (i.e., triptorelin) increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Tucatinib: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and tucatinib. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions such as QT prolongation. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and tucatinib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Ubrogepant: (Major) Increase the initial and second dose of ubrogepant to 100 mg if coadministered with mobocertinib as concurrent use may decrease ubrogepant exposure and reduce its efficacy. Ubrogepant is a CYP3A substrate; mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer.
Vandetanib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and vandetanib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vardenafil: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and vardenafil increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vemurafenib: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and vemurafenib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Venlafaxine: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and venlafaxine increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Vepdegestrant: (Major) Concomitant use of vepdegestrant and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Verapamil: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and verapamil; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and verapamil is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Voclosporin: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and voclosporin increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary. The degree of QT prolongation associated with voclosporin is not clinically significant when administered within the recommended dosage range; QT prolongation has been described at 3 times the maximum recommended dose.
Vonoprazan; Amoxicillin; Clarithromycin: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and clarithromycin. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Voriconazole: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and voriconazole. Concomitant use increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP) and may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for mobocertinib-related adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and voriconazole is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 374% to 419%.
Vorinostat: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and vorinostat increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Voxelotor: (Major) Avoid concomitant use of mobocertinib and voxelotor; reduce the dose of mobocertinib by approximately 50% and monitor the QT interval more frequently if use is necessary. Concomitant use may increase mobocertinib exposure and the risk for adverse reactions. Mobocertinib is a CYP3A substrate and voxelotor is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Use of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is predicted to increase the overall exposure of mobocertinib and its active metabolites by 100% to 200%.
Warfarin: (Moderate) Closely monitor the INR if coadministration of warfarin with mobocertinib is necessary as concurrent use may decrease the exposure of warfarin leading to reduced efficacy. The R-enantiomer of warfarin is a CYP3A substrate and mobocertinib is a weak CYP3A inducer. The S-enantiomer of warfarin exhibits 2 to 5 times more anticoagulant activity than the R-enantiomer, but the R-enantiomer generally has a slower clearance.
Zidesamtinib: (Major) Concomitant use of zidesamtinib and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziftomenib: (Major) Concomitant use of ziftomenib and mobocertinib increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.
Ziprasidone: (Major) Concomitant use of mobocertinib and ziprasidone increases the risk of QT/QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes (TdP). Avoid concomitant use if possible, especially in patients with additional risk factors for TdP. Consider taking steps to minimize the risk for QT/QTc interval prolongation and TdP, such as electrolyte monitoring and repletion and ECG monitoring, if concomitant use is necessary.

Adverse Reactions
  Headline
  Adverse Reactions
  Adverse Reactions
    Headline
    General Information
    General Information
    NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
    Headline
    atrial fibrillation, AV block, bundle-branch block, PR prolongation, QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, ventricular tachycardia
    General Information
    In a pooled safety population (n = 250), QT prolongation including QTc interval more than 500 milliseconds (msec) (1.2%) and QTc interval change from baseline by more than 60 msec (11%) occurred in patients with solid tumors who received mobocertinib therapy. Other cardiac arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation (1.6%), torsade de pointes (0.4%), ventricular tachycardia (0.4%), first-degree (0.4%) or second-degree (0.4%) AV block (0.4%), left bundle-branch block (0.4%), supraventricular extrasystoles (0.4%), and ventricular extrasystoles (0.4%) were also reported with mobocertinib therapy. Therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop grade 2 or higher QT interval prolongation. Avoid the use of concomitant medicines that are known to prolong the QT interval. Obtain an electrocardiogram and monitor electrolyte levels (e.g., sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium levels) prior to starting mobocertinib and periodically during therapy; increase monitoring in patients with risk factors for developing QT prolongation. Correct electrolyte imbalance prior to and during mobocertinib treatment. QT prolongation including ventricular arrhythmia occurred in 10% (grade 3 or 4, 3.5%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial. In cardiac electrophysiology studies, the largest mean increase in QTc was 23.0 msec and the largest mean increase in the PR interval was 12.4 msec in patient who received mobocertinib 160 mg PO once daily. QTc interval prolongation was concentration-dependent and 5% of patients had PR prolongation of more than 220 msec.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      atrial fibrillation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      AV block
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      bundle-branch block
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      PR prolongation
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      QT prolongation
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      torsade de pointes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      ventricular tachycardia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis
    General Information
    In a pooled safety population (n = 256), interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis occurred in 4.3% (grade 3, 0.8%; grade 5, 1.2%) of patients with solid tumors who received mobocertinib therapy. Monitor patients for the development of new or worsening pulmonary symptoms. Hold therapy if ILD or pneumonitis is suspected; permanently discontinue mobocertinib if ILD or pneumonitis is confirmed. Pneumonitis was reported in 2.6% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial. Fatal pneumonitis occurred in 0.9% of these patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      interstitial lung disease
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pneumonitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cardiomyopathy, heart failure
    General Information
    In a pooled safety population (n = 256), heart failure including decreased ejection fraction, cardiomyopathy, and congestive heart failure occurred in 2.7% (grade 3, 1.2%; grade 4, 0.4%; grade 5, 0.4%) of patients with solid tumors who received mobocertinib therapy. Assess cardiac function (e.g., left ventricular ejection fraction) prior to initiating mobocertinib and during therapy. Therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop grade 2 or higher decreased ejection fraction or heart failure. Heart failure was reported in 2.6% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial. Fatal heart failure occurred in 0.9% of these patients.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cardiomyopathy
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      heart failure
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    dehydration, diarrhea
    General Information
    In a pooled safety population (n = 256), diarrhea was reported in 93% (grade 3, 20%; grade 4, 0.4%) of patients with solid tumors who received mobocertinib therapy; some cases led to dehydration or electrolyte imbalance. Diarrhea may occur within 24 hours after the first mobocertinib dose, but the median time to first onset is 5 days. Almost half (48%) of patients had resolution of diarrhea; of these the median time to resolution way 3 days. Treat diarrhea promptly and monitor electrolyte levels as indicated. Initiate an antidiarrheal agent (e.g., loperamide) and increase fluid and electrolyte intake at the first sign of diarrhea or an increased frequency of bowel movements. Therapy interruption, a dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation may be necessary in patients who develop diarrhea. Diarrhea was reported in 92% (grade 3 or 4, 22%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      dehydration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      diarrhea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    abdominal pain, anorexia, cheilitis, dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux, nausea, odynophagia, oral ulceration, stomatitis, vomiting
    General Information
    Stomatitis (46%; grade 3, 4.4%), vomiting (40%; grade 3, 2.6%), anorexia (39%; grade 3, 0.9%), nausea (37%; grade 3, 4.4%), abdominal pain (18%; grade 3, 1.8%), gastroesophageal reflux disease (15%), and dyspepsia (11%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial. The term stomatitis included aphthous ulcer, cheilitis, oral ulceration, mucosal inflammation, and odynophagia; the term pain included abdominal discomfort or tenderness and gastrointestinal pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      abdominal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      anorexia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      cheilitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      dyspepsia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      gastroesophageal reflux
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      nausea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      odynophagia
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      oral ulceration
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      stomatitis
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      vomiting
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    weight loss
    General Information
    Weight loss was reported in 21% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      weight loss
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    acne vulgaris, acneiform rash, alopecia, maculopapular rash, onycholysis, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome), pruritus, rash, urticaria, xerosis
    General Information
    Rash (78%; grade 3, 1.8%), paronychia (39%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%), xerosis/dry skin (32%), pruritus (24%; grade 3, 0.9%), alopecia (19%), and palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome) (4.4%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial. The term rash included acne vulgaris, acneiform rash/dermatitis, maculopapular rash, pustular rash, and urticaria; the term paronychia included nail bed tenderness, nail disorder, nail infection, and onycholysis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      acne vulgaris
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      acneiform rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      alopecia
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      maculopapular rash
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      onycholysis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand and foot syndrome)
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pruritus
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rash
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      urticaria
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerosis
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    arthralgia, back pain, bone pain, chest pain (unspecified), musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
    General Information
    Musculoskeletal pain was reported in 34% (grade 3, 2.6%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial. The term musculoskeletal pain included arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal chest pain/non-cardiac chest pain (unspecified), musculoskeletal discomfort, myalgia, neck pain, extremity pain, and spinal/bone pain.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      arthralgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      back pain
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      bone pain
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      musculoskeletal pain
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      myalgia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      chest pain (unspecified)
      Severity
      Moderate
    Headline
    asthenia, fatigue
    General Information
    Fatigue including asthenia occurred in 29% (grade 3, 3.5%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      asthenia
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      fatigue
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    cough, dyspnea, rhinorrhea
    General Information
    Cough including upper-airway cough syndrome (24%), dyspnea (15%; grade 3 or 4, 4.4%), and rhinorrhea (13%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      cough
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      dyspnea
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      rhinorrhea
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    infection, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
    General Information
    Upper respiratory tract infection occurred in 16% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial. The term upper respiratory tract infection included pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      infection
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      pharyngitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      rhinitis
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      sinusitis
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    edema
    General Information
    Edema occurred in 9% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    blepharitis, blurred vision, corneal edema, ocular discharge, ocular hemorrhage, ocular pruritus, xerophthalmia
    General Information
    Ocular toxicity occurred in 11% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial. The term ototoxicity included dry eye/xerophthalmia, ocular pruritus, abnormal eye sensation, ocular discharge, blepharitis, trichiasis, conjunctival/ocular hemorrhage, vitreous floaters, blurred vision, and corneal edema.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      blepharitis
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      blurred vision
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      corneal edema
      Severity
      Moderate
      GSTerm Name
      ocular discharge
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      ocular hemorrhage
      Severity
      Severe
      GSTerm Name
      ocular pruritus
      Severity
      Minor
      GSTerm Name
      xerophthalmia
      Severity
      Minor
    Headline
    headache
    General Information
    Headache occurred in 10% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      headache
      Severity
      Minor
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypertension
    General Information
    Hypertension was reported in 10% (grade 3, 4.4%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypertension
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    nephrotoxicity
    General Information
    Nephrotoxicity, specifically acute kidney injury (8%) and increased serum creatinine level (52%; grade 3 or 4, 2.7%), occurred in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      nephrotoxicity
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence To
    Headline
    peripheral neuropathy
    General Information
    Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 7% of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      peripheral neuropathy
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    anemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia
    General Information
    Decreased red blood cells/anemia (59%; grade 3 or 4, 3.5%), decreased lymphocytes/lymphopenia (52%; grade 3 or 4, 15%), decreased platelets/thrombocytopenia (26%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%), and decreased leukocytes/leukopenia (25%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      anemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      leukopenia
      Severity
      Moderate
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      lymphopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      thrombocytopenia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hyperamylasemia
    General Information
    Hyperamylasemia (40%; grade 3 or 4, 13%) and increased lipase level (35%; grade 3 or 4, 10%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hyperamylasemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypoalbuminemia
    General Information
    Hypoalbuminemia was reported in 23% (grade 3 or 4, 1.8%) of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypoalbuminemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    elevated hepatic enzymes
    General Information
    Elevated hepatic enzymes including increased ALT (27%; grade 3 or 4, 2.7%), AST (21%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%), and alkaline phosphatase (25%; grade 3 or 4, 1.8%) levels were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      elevated hepatic enzymes
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
    Headline
    hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia
    General Information
    Correct electrolyte imbalance prior to and during mobocertinib treatment. Decreased potassium level/hypokalemia (29%; grade 3 or 4, 5%), decreased magnesium level/hypomagnesemia (23%; grade 3 or 4, 2.7%), and decreased sodium level/hyponatremia (20%; grade 3 or 4, 0.9%) were reported in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations whose disease had progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy who received mobocertinib (n = 114) in a clinical trial.
    Adverse Reaction GSTerms
      GSTerm Name
      hypokalemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hypomagnesemia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To
      GSTerm Name
      hyponatremia
      Severity
      Severe
      Incidence From
      Incidence To

Description
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Mobocertinib is an oral epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Mobocertinib was voluntarily withdrawn from the market in July 2024 after initial accelerated approval due to failure to meet the primary end point of progression-free survival in the EXCLAIM-2 trial.

Mechanism Of Action
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Mobocertinib is an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-tyrosine kinase inhibitor. It irreversibly binds to EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations at lower concentrations than it binds to wild-type (WT) EGFR. Cell proliferation was inhibited in EGFR exon 20 insertion mutation variants at 1.5-to 10-fold lower concentrations than WT-EGFR signaling inhibition in cultured cells. Mobocertinib also inhibits human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)-2, HER3, and B-lymphocyte kinase (BLK) at clinically relevant concentrations (IC50 values less than 2 nanomolar) in vitro. There are 2 active metabolites, AP32960 and AP32914, that have been identified in the plasma following mobocertinib administration. Mobocertinib had anti-tumor activity against xenografts with the EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations NPH or ASV in animal tumor implantation models.

Pharmacokinetics
  Route Specific Pharmacokinetics
    Name
    Oral Route
    Description
    The mean absolute bioavailability of oral mobocertinib is 37% (coefficient of variation, 50%). The combined molar Cmax and AUC(0-24h) values of mobocertinib (and its active metabolites) increase proportionally over a dose range from 5 mg to 180 mg (from 0.03 to 1.1 times the recommended dosage) following single and repeated drug administration. The equipotent active metabolites, AP32960 and AP32914, account for 36% and 4% of the combined molar AUC value, respectively. The median Tmax of mobocertinib is 4 hours (range, 1 to 8 hours).
Effects of food: There were no clinically significant differences in the Cmax and AUC values of mobocertinib after administration of a high-fat (approximately 900 to 1,000 calories with 500 to 600 calories from fat) or a low-fat (approximately 336 calories with 46 calories from fat) meal compared with administering mobocertinib after overnight fasting.
  Special Populations
    Name
    Hepatic Impairment
    Description
    Mild (total bilirubin at or below the upper limit of normal (ULN) and AST more than the ULN; OR total bilirubin more than 1 to 1.5 times ULN and any AST) to severe (total bilirubin more than 3 times ULN and any AST) hepatic impairment has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of mobocertinib.
    Name
    Renal Impairment
    Description
    Mild to moderate renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 30 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2 by MDRD equation) has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of mobocertinib. The unbound combined molar AUC of mobocertinib and its active metabolites was increased by 112% in subjects with severe renal impairment (eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 by MDRD) compared to subjects with normal renal function (eGFR 90 mL/min/1.73 m2 by MDRD) after a single 80-mg dose.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Description
    Age (range, 18 to 86 years) has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of mobocertinib.
    Name
    Gender Differences
    Description
    Gender has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of mobocertinib.
    Name
    Ethnic Differences
    Description
    Ethnicity/Race (White, Black, Asian) has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of mobocertinib.
    Name
    Obesity
    Description
    Body weight (range, 37.3 to 132 kg) has no clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetic parameters of mobocertinib.
  Text
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
Mobocertinib is administered orally. At concentrations of 0.5 to 5 micromolar, it is approximately 94% (+/- 0.11%) bound to human plasma proteins in vitro, with a blood-to-plasma ratio of 0.76. For mobocertinib, the steady-state mean apparent volume of distribution is 3,509 L (coefficient of variation (CV), 38%), the steady-state mean plasma elimination half-life is 18 hours (CV, 21%), and the steady-state mean apparent oral clearance is 138 L/hour (CV, 47%). After a single radiolabeled dose of mobocertinib 160 mg, approximately 76% of the dose was recovered in feces (about 6% unchanged) and approximately 4% was recovered in urine (about 1% unchanged). Mobocertinib is primarily metabolized via CYP3A and has 2 equipotent metabolites, AP32960 and AP32914. AP32960 is approximately 99.5% (+/- 0.16%) bound to human plasma proteins in vitro, with a blood-to-plasma ratio of 1.2; the steady-state mean plasma elimination half-life is 24 hours (CV, 20%) and the steady-state mean apparent oral clearance is 149 L/hour (CV, 36%). Following a radiolabeled dose of mobocertinib, approximately 12% and 1% of the dose was recovered in feces and urine, respectively. AP32914 is approximately 98.6% (+/- 0.36%) bound to human plasma proteins in vitro, with a blood-to-plasma ratio of 0.71; the steady-state mean plasma elimination half-life is 18 hours (CV, 21%) and the steady-state mean apparent oral clearance is 159 L/hour (CV, 52%).
Affected cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoenzymes and drug transporters: CYP3AMobocertinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A; it is also a weak CYP3A inducer. In vitro, mobocertinib is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate and an inhibitor of P-gp and BCRP. No clinically significant pharmacokinetic (PK) differences are predicted when multiple doses of mobocertinib are coadministered with a P-gp substrate. It is not known if coadministration with a BCRP substrate would result in clinically significant PK differences for the BCRP substrate.

Administration
  General Information
  NOTE: All products associated with this monograph are off-market. The content is retained for historical reference only and is no longer actively maintained.
 
For storage information, see the specific product information within the How Supplied section.
  Route Specific Administrations
    Administration Details
      Name
      Oral Solid Formulations
      Description
      Take mobocertinib orally with or without food at the same time each day.
Swallow capsules whole; do not open, chew, or dissolve the contents of the capsules.
If a dose is missed by more than 6 hours or if a dose is vomited, skip the dose and take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time the next day.
    Name
    Oral Administration

Maximum Dosage Limits
  Age Groups
    Name
    Adults
    Max Dosage
    Dosage not available.
    Name
    Geriatric
    Max Dosage
    Dosage not available.
    Name
    Adolescents
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.
    Name
    Children
    Max Dosage
    Safety and efficacy have not been established.

Dosage Adjustment Guidelines
  Hepatic Impairment
  Dosage not available.
  Renal Impairment
  Dosage not available.
